<html>
<head>
<title>WAIS Document Retrieval</title>
</head>
<body>
<pre>
[Congressional Record: June 13, 1995 (<strong>House</strong>)]
[Page H5833-H5883]
From the Congressional Record Online via GPO Access [wais.access.gpo.gov]
[DOCID:cr13jn95-88]                         
[[pp. H5833-H5883]] NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 1996
[[Continued from page H5832]]
     Section 308h(g) of such title is amended by striking out 
     ``September 30, 1996'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``September 30, 1998''.
       (e) Prior Service Enlistment Bonus.--Section 308i(i) of 
     such title is amended by striking out ``September 30, 1996'' 
     and inserting in lieu thereof ``September 30, 1998''.
     SEC. 612. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUSES AND SPECIAL PAY FOR 
                   NURSE OFFICER CANDIDATES, REGISTERED NURSES, 
                   AND NURSE ANESTHETISTS.
       (a) Nurse Officer Candidate Accession Program.--Section 
     2130a(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking out ``September 30, 1996'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``September 30, 1998''.
       (b) Accession Bonus for Registered Nurses.--Section 
     302d(a)(1) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking out ``September 30, 1996'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``September 30, 1998''.
       (c) Incentive Special Pay for Nurse Anesthetists.--Section 
     302e(a)(1) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking out ``September 30, 1996'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``September 30, 1998''.
     SEC. 613. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY RELATING TO PAYMENT OF OTHER 
                   BONUSES AND SPECIAL PAYS.
       (a) Aviation Officer Retention Bonus.--Section 301b(a) of 
     title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking out 
     ``September 30, 1995'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``September 30, 1998''.
       (b) Reenlistment Bonus for Active Members.--Section 308(g) 
     of such title is amended by striking out ``September 30, 
     1996'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``September 30, 1998''.
       (c) Enlistment Bonuses for Critical Skills.--Sections 
     308a(c) and 308f(c) of such title are each amended by 
     striking out ``September 30, 1996'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``September 30, 1998''.
       (d) Special Pay for Enlisted Members of the Selected 
     Reserve Assigned to Certain High Priority Units.--Section 
     308d(c) of such title is amended by striking out ``September 
     30, 1996'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``September 30, 
     1998''.
       (e) Special Pay for Nuclear-Qualified Officers Extending 
     Period of Active Service.--Section 312(e) of such title is 
     amended by striking out ``September 30, 1996'' and inserting 
     in lieu thereof ``September 30, 1998''.
       (f) Nuclear Career Accession Bonus.--Section 312b(c) of 
     such title is amended by striking out ``September 30, 1996'' 
     and inserting in lieu thereof ``September 30, 1998''.
       (g) Nuclear Career Annual Incentive Bonus.--Section 312c(d) 
     of such title is amended by striking out ``October 1, 1996' 
     and inserting in lieu thereof ``October 1, 1998''.
       (h) Repayment of Education Loans for Certain Health 
     Professionals who Serve in the Selected Reserve.--Section 
     16302(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking out ``October 1, 1996'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``October 1, 1998''.
     SEC. 614. CODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF SPECIAL PAY FOR 
                   CRITICALLY SHORT WARTIME HEALTH SPECIALISTS IN 
                   THE SELECTED RESERVES.
       (a) Special Pay Authorized.--(1) Chapter 5 of title 37, 
     United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 
     302f the following new section:
     ``Sec. 302g. Special pay: Selected Reserve health care 
       professionals in critically short wartime specialties
       ``(a) Special Pay Authorized.--An officer of a reserve 
     component of the armed forces described in subsection (b) who 
     executes a written agreement under which the officer agrees 
     to serve in the Selected Reserve of an armed force for a 
     period of not less than one year nor more than three years, 
     beginning on the date the officer accepts the award of 
     special pay under this section, may be paid special pay at an 
     annual rate not to exceed $10,000.
       ``(b) Eligible Officers.--An officer referred to in 
     subsection (a) is an officer in a health care profession who 
     is qualified in a specialty designated by regulations as a 
     critically short wartime specialty.
       ``(c) Time for Payment.--Special pay under this section 
     shall be paid annually at the beginning of each twelve-month 
     period for which the officer has agreed to serve.
       ``(d) Refund Requirement.--An officer who voluntarily 
     terminates service in the Selected Reserve of an armed force 
     before the end of the period for which a payment was made to 
     such officer under this section shall refund to the United 
     States the full amount of the payment made for the period on 
     which the payment was based.
       ``(e) Inapplicability of Discharge in Bankruptcy.--A 
     discharge in bankruptcy under title 11 that is entered less 
     than five years after the termination of an agreement under 
     this section does not discharge the person receiving special 
     pay under the agreement from the debt arising under the 
     agreement.
       ``(f) Termination of Agreement Authority.--No agreement 
     under this section may be entered into after September 30, 
     1998.''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter 
     is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
     302f the following new item:
``302g. Special pay: Selected Reserve health care professionals in 
              critically short wartime specialties.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 303a of title 37, United 
     States Code is amended by striking out ``302, 302a, 302b, 
     302c, 302d, 302e,'' each place it appears and inserting in 
     lieu thereof ``302 through 302g,''.
       (c) Conforming Repeal.--(1) Section 613 of the National 
     Defense Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989 (Public Law 100-
     456; 37 U.S.C. 302 note) is repealed.
       (2) The repeal of section 613 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989, by paragraph (1) shall 
     not affect the validity or terms of any agreement entered 
     into under such section before the date of the enactment of 
     this Act.
     SEC. 615. CHANGE IN ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTINUOUS 
                   MONTHLY AVIATION INCENTIVE PAY.
       (a) Lower Incentive Pay Gate.--Section 301a(a)(4) of title 
     37, United States Code, is amended by striking out ``9'' in 
     the first sentence and inserting in lieu thereof ``8''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on October 1, 1995.
     SEC. 616. CONTINUOUS ENTITLEMENT TO CAREER SEA PAY FOR 
                   CREWMEMBERS OF SHIPS DESIGNATED AS TENDERS.
       (a) Continuous Entitlement.--Section 305a(d)(1)(A) of title 
     37, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking out ``or'' after ``under way'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof a comma; and
       (2) by inserting before the semicolon at the end the 
     following: ``, or while serving as a member of a tender-class 
     ship (with the hull classification of submarine or 
     destroyer)''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on October 1, 1995.
     SEC. 617. INCREASE IN MAXIMUM RATE OF SPECIAL DUTY ASSIGNMENT 
                   PAY FOR ENLISTED MEMBERS SERVING AS RECRUITERS.
       (a) Special Maximum Rate for Recruiters.--Section 307(a) of 
     title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new sentence: ``In the case of a member who is 
     serving as a military recruiter and is eligible for special 
     duty assignment pay under this subsection on account of such 
     duty, the Secretary concerned may increase the monthly rate 
     of special duty assignment pay for the member to not more 
     than $375.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall take effect on January 1, 1996.
            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances
     SEC. 621. AUTHORIZATION OF RETURN TO UNITED STATES OF 
                   FORMERLY DEPENDENT CHILDREN OF MEMBERS.
       (a) Return at Government Expense.--Section 406(h)(1) of 
     title 37, United States Code, is amended in the last 
     sentence--
       (1) by striking out ``who became 21 years of age'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``who, by reason of age or 
     graduation from (or cessation of enrollment in) an 
     institution of higher education, would otherwise cease to be 
     a dependent of the member''; and
       (2) by inserting ``still'' after ``shall''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on October 1, 1995.
     SEC. 622. AUTHORIZATION OF DISLOCATION ALLOWANCE FOR MOVES IN 
                   CONNECTION WITH BASE REALIGNMENTS AND CLOSURES.
       (a) Dislocation Allowance Authorized.--Subsection (a) of 
     section 407 of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking out ``or'' at the end of paragraph (3);
       (2) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph 
     (4)(B) and inserting in lieu thereof ``; or''; and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (4)(B) the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(5) the member's dependents actually make an authorized 
     move in connection with the member's directed order to move 
     as a result of the closure or realignment of a military 
     installation.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further 
     amended--
       (1) in the sentence following subsection (a)(4)--
       (A) by striking out ``clause (3) or (4)(B)'' and inserting 
     in lieu thereof ``paragraph (3) or (4)(B)''; and
       (B) by striking out ``clause (1)'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``paragraph (1) or (5)'';
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) by striking out ``subsection (a)(3) or (a)(4)(B)'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``paragraph (3) or (4)(B) of 
     subsection (a)''; and
       (B) by striking out ``subsection (a)(1)'' and inserting in 
     lieu thereof ``paragraph (1) or (5) of subsection (a)''.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters
     SEC. 631. ELIMINATION OF UNNECESSARY ANNUAL REPORTING 
                   REQUIREMENTS REGARDING COMPENSATION MATTERS.
       (a) Report on Travel and Transportation Allowances for 
     Dependents.--(1) Section 406 of title 37, United States Code, 
     is amended--
       (A) by striking out subsection (i); and
       (B) by redesignating subsections (j), (k), (l), (m), and 
     (n) as subsections (i), (j), (k), (l), and (m), respectively.
       (2) Section 2634(d) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking out ``section 406(l) of title 37'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``section 406(k) of title 37''.
       (b) Annual Review of Pay and Allowances.--Subsection (a) of 
     section 1008 of title 37, United States Code, is amended to 
     read as follows:
       ``(a) Not later than March 31 of each year, the President 
     shall submit to Congress such recommendations (if any) as the 
     President considers appropriate for adjustments in the rates 
     of pay and allowances authorized by this title for members of 
     the uniformed services.''.
     SEC. 632. STUDY REGARDING JOINT PROCESS FOR DETERMINING 
                   LOCATION OF RECRUITING STATIONS.
       (a) Study Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct 
     a study regarding the feasibility of--
       (1) using a joint process among the Armed Forces for 
     determining the location of recruiting stations and the 
     number of military personnel required to operate such 
     stations; and
       (2) basing such determinations on market research and 
     analysis conducted jointly by the Armed Forces.
       (b) Report.--Not later than March 31, 1996, the Secretary 
     of Defense shall submit to Congress a report describing the 
     results of the study. The report shall include a recommended 
     method for measuring the efficiency of individual recruiting 
     stations, such as cost per accession or other efficiency 
     standard, as determined by the Secretary.
     SEC. 633. ELIMINATION OF DISPARITY BETWEEN EFFECTIVE DATES 
                   FOR MILITARY AND CIVILIAN RETIREE COST-OF-
                   LIVING ADJUSTMENTS FOR FISCAL YEAR 1996.
       (a) In General.--The fiscal year 1996 increase in military 
     retired pay shall (notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of 
     section 1401a(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code) first be 
     payable as part of such retired pay for the month of March 
     1996.
       (b) Definitions.--For the purposes of subsection (a):
       (1) The term ``fiscal year 1996 increase in military 
     retired pay'' means the increase in retired pay that, 
     pursuant to paragraph (1) of section 1401a(b) of title 10, 
     United States Code, becomes effective on December 1, 1995.
       (2) The term ``retired pay'' includes retainer pay.
       (c) Limitation.--Subsection (a) shall be effective only if 
     there is appropriated to the Department of Defense Military 
     Retirement Fund (in an Act making appropriations for the 
     Department of Defense for fiscal year 1996 that is enacted 
     before March 1, 1996) such amount as is necessary to offset 
     increased outlays to be made from that fund during fiscal 
     year 1996 by reason of the provisions of subsection (a).
       (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated for fiscal year 1996 to the Department of 
     Defense Military Retirement Fund the sum of $403,000,000 to 
     offset increased outlays to be made from that fund during 
     fiscal year 1996 by reason of the provisions of subsection 
     (a).
                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS
                    Subtitle A--Health Care Services
     SEC. 701. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS REGARDING ROUTINE 
                   PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS AND IMMUNIZATIONS UNDER 
                   CHAMPUS.
       Section 1079(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking out paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu thereof 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) consistent with such regulations as the Secretary of 
     Defense may prescribe regarding the content of health 
     promotion and disease prevention visits, the schedule of pap 
     smears and mammograms, and the types and schedule of 
     immunizations--
       ``(A) for dependents under six years of age, both health 
     promotion and disease prevention visits and immunizations may 
     be provided; and
       ``(B) for dependents six years of age or older, health 
     promotion and disease prevention visits may be provided in 
     connection with immunizations or with diagnostic or 
     preventive pap smears and mammograms;''.
     SEC. 702. CORRECTION OF INEQUITIES IN MEDICAL AND DENTAL CARE 
                   AND DEATH AND DISABILITY BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN 
                   RESERVISTS.
       (a) Medical and Dental Care.--Section 1074a(a) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new paragraph:
       ``(3) Each member of the armed forces who incurs or 
     aggravates an injury, illness, or disease in the line of duty 
     while remaining overnight, between successive periods of 
     inactive-duty training, at or in the vicinity of the site of 
     the inactive-duty training, and the site is outside 
     reasonable commuting distance from the member's residence.''.
       (b) Recovery, Care, and Disposition of Remains.--Section 
     1481(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking out ``or'' at the end 
     of the subparagraph;
       (2) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (E); 
     and
       (3) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(D) remaining overnight, between successive periods of 
     inactive-duty training, at or in the vicinity of the site of 
     the inactive-duty training, and the site is outside 
     reasonable commuting distance from the member's residence; 
     or''.
       (c) Entitlement to Basic Pay.--(1) Subsection (g)(1) of 
     section 204 of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
       (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking out ``or'' at the end 
     of the subparagraph;
       (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking out the period at the 
     end of the subparagraph and inserting in lieu thereof ``; 
     or''; and
       (C) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(D) in line of duty while remaining overnight, between 
     successive periods of inactive-duty training, at or in the 
     vicinity of the site of the inactive-duty training, and the 
     site is outside reasonable commuting distance from the 
     member's residence.''.
       (2) Subsection (h)(1) of such section is amended--
       (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking out ``or'' at the end 
     of the subparagraph;
       (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking out the period at the 
     end of the subparagraph and inserting in lieu thereof ``; 
     or''; and
       (C) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(D) in line of duty while remaining overnight, between 
     successive periods of inactive-duty training, at or in the 
     vicinity of the site of the inactive-duty training, and the 
     site is outside reasonable commuting distance from the 
     member's residence.''.
       (d) Compensation for Inactive-Duty Training.--Section 
     206(a)(3) of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking out ``or'' at the end 
     of clause (ii);
       (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking out the period at the 
     end of the subparagraph and inserting in lieu thereof ``; 
     or''; and
       (3) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new 
     subparagraph:
       ``(C) in line of duty while remaining overnight, between 
     successive periods of inactive-duty training, at or in the 
     vicinity of the site of the inactive-duty training, and the 
     site is outside reasonable commuting distance from the 
     member's residence.''.
     SEC. 703. MEDICAL AND DENTAL CARE FOR MEMBERS OF THE SELECTED 
                   RESERVE.
       (a) Members of Early Deploying Units of the Army Selected 
     Reserve.--Section 1074a of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in subsection (c), by striking out ``this section'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``subsection (b)''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(d)(1) The Secretary of the Army shall provide to members 
     of the Selected Reserve of the Army who are assigned to units 
     scheduled for deployment within 75 days after mobilization 
     the following medical and dental services:
       ``(A) An annual medical screening.
       ``(B) For members who are over 40 years of age, a full 
     physical examination not less often than once every two 
     years.
       ``(C) An annual dental screening.
       ``(D) The dental care identified in an annual dental 
     screening as required to ensure that a member meets the 
     dental standards required for deployment in the event of 
     mobilization.
       ``(2) The services provided under this subsection shall be 
     provided at no cost to the member.''.
       (b) Voluntary Demonstration Program to Improve Dental 
     Readiness of Selected Reserve.--(1) For members of the 
     Selected Reserve who are not covered by subsection (a), the 
     Secretary of Defense shall conduct a demonstration program to 
     offer such members affordable dental care for the purpose of 
     ensuring that such members meet the dental standards required 
     for deployment in the event of mobilization. The Secretary 
     shall determine the geographical scope of the demonstration 
     program and the number of members of the Selected Reserve who 
     will be invited to participate in the program. However, 
     participation in the demonstration program shall be offered 
     to the members of at least one ground combat maneuver unit of 
     the Selected Reserve of the Army scheduled for deployment 
     within 90 days after mobilization.
       (2) The Secretary may model the dental demonstration 
     program after the dependents' dental program authorized under 
     section 1076a of title 10, United States Code, except that 
     participants in the demonstration program shall be 
     responsible for all costs incurred to provide dental care 
     under the program. The Secretary shall provide for allotment 
     or deduction from the military pay of participants as a means 
     to pay any premiums required under the demonstration program.
       (3) The authority to carry out the dental demonstration 
     program under this subsection shall expire on September 30, 
     1997.
       (c) Evaluation of Demonstration Program.--Not later than 
     March 1, 1997, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
     report evaluating the success of the dental demonstration 
     program conducted under subsection (b) in improving the 
     dental readiness of the Selected Reserve. The Secretary shall 
     submit a revised report under this subsection not later than 
     30 days after the expiration of the demonstration program.
       (d) Conforming Repeals.--Sections 1117 and 1118 of the Army 
     National Guard Combat Readiness Reform Act of 1992 (title XI 
     of Public Law 102-484; 10 U.S.C. 3077 note) are repealed.
                      Subtitle B--TRICARE Program
     SEC. 711. PRIORITY USE OF MILITARY TREATMENT FACILITIES FOR 
                   PERSONS ENROLLED IN MANAGED CARE INITIATIVES.
       Section 1097(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     in the third sentence by striking out ``However, the 
     Secretary may'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``Notwithstanding the preferences established by sections 
     1074(b) and 1076 of this title, the Secretary shall''.
     SEC. 712. STAGGERED PAYMENT OF ENROLLMENT FEES FOR TRICARE.
       Section 1097(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``Without 
     imposing additional costs on covered beneficiaries who 
     participate in contracts for health care services under this 
     section or health care plans offered under section 1099 of 
     this title, the Secretary shall permit such covered 
     beneficiaries to pay, on a monthly or quarterly basis, any 
     enrollment fee required for such participation.''.
     SEC. 713. REQUIREMENT OF BUDGET NEUTRALITY FOR TRICARE TO BE 
                   BASED ON ENTIRE PROGRAM.
       (a) Change in Budget Neutrality Requirements.--Subsection 
     (c) of section 731 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 1994 (Public Law 103-160; 10 U.S.C. 1073 
     note) is amended--
       (1) by striking out ``each managed health care initiative 
     that includes the option'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``the TRICARE program''; and [[Page H5835]] 
       (2) by striking out ``covered beneficiaries who enroll in 
     the option'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``members of the 
     uniformed services and covered beneficiaries who participate 
     in the TRICARE program''.
       (b) Addition of Definition of TRICARE Program.--Subsection 
     (d) of such section is amended to read as follows:
       ``(d) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
       ``(1) The term `covered beneficiary' means a beneficiary 
     under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, other than 
     a beneficiary under section 1074(a) of such title.
       ``(2) The term `TRICARE program' means the managed health 
     care program that is established by the Secretary of Defense 
     under the authority of chapter 55 of title 10, United States 
     Code, principally section 1097 of such title, and includes 
     the competitive selection of contractors to financially 
     underwrite the delivery of health care services under the 
     Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed 
     Services.''.
     SEC. 714. TRAINING IN HEALTH CARE MANAGEMENT AND 
                   ADMINISTRATION FOR TRICARE LEAD AGENTS.
       (a) Provision of Training.--Not later than six months after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall implement a professional educational program to 
     provide appropriate training in health care management and 
     administration to each commander of a military medical 
     treatment facility of the Department of Defense who is 
     selected to serve as a lead agent to coordinate the delivery 
     of health care by military and civilian providers under the 
     TRICARE program.
       (b) TRICARE Program Defined.--For purposes of this section, 
     the term ``TRICARE program'' means the managed health care 
     program that is established by the Secretary of Defense under 
     the authority of chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, 
     principally section 1097 of such title, and includes the 
     competitive selection of contractors to financially 
     underwrite the delivery of health care services under the 
     Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed 
     Services.
       (c) Report on Implementation.--Not later than six months 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Defense shall submit to Congress a report describing the 
     professional educational program implemented pursuant to this 
     section.
     SEC. 715. EVALUATION AND REPORT ON TRICARE EFFECTIVENESS.
       (a) Evaluation Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     arrange for an on-going evaluation of the effectiveness of 
     the TRICARE program in meeting the goals of increasing the 
     access of covered beneficiaries under chapter 55 of title 10, 
     United States Code, to health care and improving the quality 
     of health care provided to covered beneficiaries, without 
     increasing the costs incurred by the Government or covered 
     beneficiaries. The evaluation shall specifically address the 
     impact of the TRICARE program on military retirees with 
     regard to access, costs, and quality of health care services 
     and identify noncatchment areas in which the HMO option of 
     the TRICARE program will be available. The Secretary shall 
     use a federally funded research and development center to 
     conduct the evaluation required by this section.
       (b) Annual Report.--Not later than March 1 of each year, 
     the center conducting the evaluation under subsection (a) 
     shall submit to Congress a report describing the results of 
     the evaluation during the preceding year.
       (c) TRICARE Program Defined.--For purposes of this section, 
     the term ``TRICARE program'' means the managed health care 
     program that is established by the Secretary of Defense under 
     the authority of chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, 
     principally section 1097 of such title, and includes the 
     competitive selection of contractors to financially 
     underwrite the delivery of health care services under the 
     Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed 
     Services.
          Subtitle C--Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities
     SEC. 721. LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURES TO SUPPORT UNIFORMED 
                   SERVICES TREATMENT FACILITIES AND LIMITATION ON 
                   NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS IN USTF MANAGED CARE 
                   PLANS.
       Subsection (f) of section 1252 of the Department of Defense 
     Authorization Act, 1984 (42 U.S.C. 248d), is amended to read 
     as follows:
       ``(f) Limitation on Expenditures and Participants.--(1) The 
     total amount of expenditures by the Secretary of Defense to 
     carry out this section and section 911 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act, 1982 (42 U.S.C. 248c), for 
     fiscal year 1996 may not exceed $300,000,000, adjusted by the 
     Secretary to reflect the inflation factor used by the 
     Department of Defense for such year.
       ``(2) During fiscal year 1996, the number of covered 
     beneficiaries under chapter 55 of title 10, United States 
     Code (including covered beneficiaries described in section 
     1086(d)(1) of such title), who are enrolled in managed care 
     plans offered by facilities described in subsection (a) and 
     designated under subsection (c) may not exceed the number of 
     such covered beneficiaries so enrolled as of September 30, 
     1995.''.
     SEC. 722. APPLICATION OF FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION TO 
                   PARTICIPATION AGREEMENTS WITH UNIFORMED 
                   SERVICES TREATMENT FACILITIES.
       Section 718(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1587) is 
     amended--
       (1) in the second sentence of paragraph (1), by striking 
     out ``A participation agreement'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``Except as provided in paragraph (4), a 
     participation agreement'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (6); and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(4) Application of federal acquisition regulation.--On 
     and after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, 
     Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities and any participation 
     agreement between Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities and 
     the Secretary of Defense shall be subject to the Federal 
     Acquisition Regulation issued pursuant to section 25(c) of 
     the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
     421(c)) notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in such 
     a participation agreement. The requirements regarding 
     competition in the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall apply 
     with regard to the negotiation of any new participation 
     agreement between the Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities 
     and the Secretary of Defense under this subsection or any 
     other provision of law.''.
     SEC. 723. DEVELOPMENT OF PLAN FOR INTEGRATING UNIFORMED 
                   SERVICES TREATMENT FACILITIES IN MANAGED CARE 
                   PROGRAMS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
       Section 718(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1587) is 
     amended by inserting after paragraph (4), as added by section 
     722, the following new paragraph:
       ``(5) Plan for integrating facilities.--(A) Not later than 
     March 1, 1996, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
     Congress a plan under which Uniformed Services Treatment 
     Facilities, on or before September 30, 1997, shall be 
     included in the exclusive health care provider networks 
     established by the Secretary for the geographic regions in 
     which the facilities are located. The Secretary shall address 
     in the plan the feasibility of implementing the managed care 
     plan of the Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities, known as 
     Option II, on a mandatory basis for all USTF Medicare-
     eligible beneficiaries and the potential cost savings to the 
     Military Health Care Program that could be achieved under 
     such option.
       ``(B) The plan developed under this paragraph shall be 
     consistent with the requirements specified in paragraph (4). 
     If the plan is not submitted to Congress by the expiration 
     date of the participation agreements entered into under this 
     section, the participation agreements shall remain in effect, 
     at the option of the Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities, 
     until the end of the 180-day period beginning on the date the 
     plan is finally submitted.
       ``(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the term `USTF 
     Medicare-eligible beneficiaries' means covered beneficiaries 
     under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, who are 
     enrolled in a managed health plan offered by the Uniformed 
     Services Treatment Facilities and entitled to hospital 
     insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395c et seq.).''.
     SEC. 724. EQUITABLE IMPLEMENTATION OF UNIFORM COST SHARING 
                   REQUIREMENTS FOR UNIFORMED SERVICES TREATMENT 
                   FACILITIES.
       The uniform managed care benefit fee and copayment schedule 
     developed by the Secretary of Defense for use in all managed 
     care initiatives of the military health service system, 
     including the managed care program of the Uniformed Services 
     Treatment Facilities, shall be extended to the managed care 
     program of a Uniformed Services Treatment Facility only upon 
     the implementation of the TRICARE regional program covering 
     the service area of the Uniformed Services Treatment 
     Facility.
   Subtitle D--Other Changes to Existing Laws Regarding Health Care 
                               Management
     SEC. 731. MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE PAYMENTS TO INDIVIDUAL HEALTH-
                   CARE PROVIDERS UNDER CHAMPUS.
       (a) Maximum Payment.--Subsection (h) of section 1079 of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking out 
     paragraph (1) and inserting in lieu thereof the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(1) Payment for a charge for services by an individual 
     health care professional (or other noninstitutional health 
     care provider) for which a claim is submitted under a plan 
     contracted for under subsection (a) may not exceed the lesser 
     of--
       ``(A) an amount equivalent to the 80th percentile of billed 
     charges made for similar services in the same locality during 
     a 12-month base period; or
       ``(B) an amount determined to be appropriate, to the extent 
     practicable, in accordance with the same reimbursement rules 
     as apply to payments for similar services under title XVIII 
     of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.).''.
       (b) Comparison to Medicare Payments.--Such subsection is 
     further amended by adding at the end the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(3) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(B), the appropriate 
     payment amount shall be determined by the Secretary of 
     Defense, in consultation with the other administering 
     Secretaries.''.
       (c) Exceptions and Limitations.--Such subsection is further 
     amended by inserting after paragraph (3), as added by 
     subsection (b), the following new paragraphs:
       ``(4) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
     other administering Secretaries, shall prescribe regulations 
     to provide for such exceptions to the payment limitations 
     under paragraph (1) as the administering Secretaries 
     determine to be necessary to assure that covered 
     beneficiaries retain adequate access to health care services. 
     Such exceptions may include the payment of amounts greater 
     than the amount allowed under paragraph (1) when enrollees in 
     managed care programs obtain covered emergency services from 
     nonparticipating providers. To transition from the payment 
     methods in effect before the date of the enactment of this 
     [[Page H5836]] paragraph to the methodology required by 
     paragraph (1), the amount allowable for any service may not 
     be reduced by more than 15 percent from the amount allowed 
     for the same service during the immediately preceding 12-
     month period (or other period as established by the Secretary 
     of Defense).
       ``(5) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
     other administering Secretaries, shall prescribe regulations 
     to establish limitations (similar to those limitations 
     established under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C. 1395 et seq.)) on beneficiary liability for charges of 
     an individual health care professional (or other 
     noninstitutional health care provider).''.
       (d) Conforming Amendment.--Paragraph (2) of such subsection 
     is amended by striking out ``paragraph (1)'' and inserting in 
     lieu thereof ``paragraph (1)(A)''.
       (e) Report on Effect of Amendments.--Not later than March 
     1, 1996, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a 
     report analyzing the effect of the amendments made by this 
     section on the ability or willingness of individual health 
     care professionals and other noninstitutional health care 
     providers to participate in the Civilian Health and Medical 
     Program of the Uniformed Services.
     SEC. 732. EXPANSION OF EXISTING RESTRICTION ON USE OF DEFENSE 
                   FUNDS FOR ABORTIONS.
       (a) Inclusion of Defense Facilities.--Section 1093 of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
     ``Department of Defense'' the following: ``, and medical 
     treatment facilities or other facilities of the Department of 
     Defense,''.
       (b) Clerical Amendments.--(1) The heading of such section 
     is amended by inserting ``or facilities'' after ``funds''.
       (2) The item relating to such section in the table of 
     sections at the beginning of chapter 55 of such title is 
     amended to read as follows:
``1093. Restriction on use of funds or facilities for abortions.''.
     SEC. 733. IDENTIFICATION OF THIRD-PARTY PAYER SITUATIONS.
       Section 1095 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(k)(1) To improve the administration of this section and 
     sections 1079(j)(1) and 1086(d) of this title, the Secretary 
     of Defense, in consultation with the other administering 
     Secretaries, may prescribe regulations to collect information 
     regarding insurance, medical service, or health plans of 
     third-party payers held by covered beneficiaries.
       ``(2) The collection of information under regulations 
     issued under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in the same 
     manner as provided in section 1862(b)(5) of the Social 
     Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395y(b)(5)). The Secretary may 
     provide for obtaining from the Commissioner of Social 
     Security employment information comparable to the information 
     provided to the Administrator of the Health Care Financing 
     Administration pursuant to such section. Such regulations may 
     require the mandatory disclosure of social security account 
     numbers for all covered beneficiaries.
       ``(3) The Secretary of Defense may disclosure relevant 
     employment information collected under this subsection to 
     fiscal intermediaries or other designated contractors.
       ``(4) The Secretary of Defense may provide for contacting 
     employers of covered beneficiaries to obtain group health 
     plan information comparable to the information authorized to 
     be obtained under section 1862(b)(5)(C) of the Social 
     Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395y(b)(5)(C)). Clause (ii) of such 
     section regarding the imposition of civil money penalties 
     shall apply to the collection of information under this 
     paragraph.
       ``(5) Information obtained under this subsection may not be 
     disclosed for any purpose other than to carry out the purpose 
     of this section and sections 1079(j)(1) and 1086(d) of this 
     title.''.
     SEC. 734. REDESIGNATION OF MILITARY HEALTH CARE ACCOUNT AS 
                   DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM ACCOUNT AND TWO-YEAR 
                   AVAILABILITY OF CERTAIN ACCOUNT FUNDS.
       (a) Redesignation.--Section 1100 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
       (A) by striking out ``Military Health Care Account'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``Defense Health Program Account''; 
     and
       (B) by striking out ``the Civilian Health and Medical 
     Program of the Uniformed Services'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``medical and health care programs of the Department 
     of Defense''; and
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) by striking out ``entering into a contract'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``conducting programs and 
     activities under this chapter, including contracts entered 
     into''; and
       (B) by inserting a comma after ``title''.
       (b) Two Year Availability of Certain Appropriations.--
     Subsection (a)(2) of such section is amended to read as 
     follows:
       ``(2) Three percent of the funds appropriated annually for 
     the operation and maintenance of the programs and activities 
     authorized by this chapter shall remain available for 
     obligation until the end of the fiscal year following the 
     fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated. This 
     paragraph shall not apply for a fiscal year to the extent 
     that a provision of law specifically refers to this paragraph 
     and specifies that this paragraph shall not apply for that 
     fiscal year.''.
       (c) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further 
     amended--
       (1) by striking out subsections (c), (d), and (f); and
       (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (c).
       (d) Clerical Amendments.--(1) The heading of such section 
     is amended to read as follows:
     ``Sec. 1100. Defense Health Program Account''.
       (2) The item relating to such section in the table of 
     sections at the beginning of chapter 55 of such title is 
     amended to read as follows:
``1100. Defense Health Program Account.''.
     SEC. 735. EXPANSION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR 
                   HEALTH-CARE PROFESSIONALS IN RESERVE COMPONENTS 
                   TO INCLUDE DENTAL SPECIALTIES.
       Section 16201(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and 
     Dentists'' after ``Physicians'';
       (2) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ``or dental school'' 
     after ``medical school'';
       (3) in paragraphs (1)(B) and (2)(B), by inserting ``or 
     dental officer'' after ``medical officer''; and
       (4) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking out ``physicians in a 
     medical specialty'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``physicians or dentists in a medical or dental specialty''.
     SEC. 736. ELIMINATION OF UNNECESSARY ANNUAL REPORTING 
                   REQUIREMENTS REGARDING MILITARY HEALTH CARE.
       Section 1252 of the Department of Defense Authorization 
     Act, 1984 (42 U.S.C. 248d), is amended by striking out 
     subsection (d).
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters
     SEC. 741. TERMINATION OF PROGRAM TO TRAIN AND UTILIZE 
                   MILITARY PSYCHOLOGISTS TO PRESCRIBE 
                   PSYCHOTROPIC MEDICATIONS.
       (a) Termination.--Immediately after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     terminate the demonstration pilot program for training and 
     utilizing military psychologists in the prescription of 
     psychotropic medications, which is referred to in section 
     8097 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1991 
     (Public Law 101-511; 104 Stat. 1897). None of the funds 
     appropriated to the Department of Defense for a fiscal year 
     after fiscal year 1995 may be used to train psychologists to 
     be able to prescribe psychotropic medications.
       (b) Effect on Authority to Prescribe Psychotropic 
     Medications.--Psychologists who participated in the 
     demonstration pilot training program regarding the 
     prescription of psychotropic medications shall not be 
     authorized to prescribe such medications despite the 
     completion of training under the program.
     SEC. 742. WAIVER OF COLLECTION OF PAYMENTS DUE FROM CERTAIN 
                   PERSONS UNAWARE OF LOSS OF CHAMPUS ELIGIBILITY.
       (a) Authority To Waive Collection.--The administering 
     Secretaries may waive the collection of payments otherwise 
     due from a person described in subsection (b) as a result of 
     the receipt by the person of health benefits under section 
     1086 of title 10, United States Code, after the termination 
     of the person's eligibility for such benefits.
       (b) Persons Eligible for Waiver.--A person shall be 
     eligible for relief under subsection (a) if the person--
       (1) is a person described in paragraph (1) of subsection 
     (d) of section 1086 of title 10, United States Code;
       (2) in the absence of such paragraph, would have been 
     eligible for health benefits under such section; and
       (3) at the time of the receipt of such benefits, satisfied 
     the criteria specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
     paragraph (2) of such subsection.
       (c) Extent of Waiver Authority.--The authority to waive the 
     collection of payments pursuant to this section shall apply 
     with regard to health benefits provided under section 1086 of 
     title 10, United States Code, to persons described in 
     subsection (b) during the period beginning on January 1, 
     1967, and ending on the later of--
       (1) the termination date of any special enrollment period 
     provided under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C. 1395c et seq.) specifically for such persons; and
       (2) July 1, 1996.
       (d) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the term 
     ``administering Secretaries'' has the meaning given such term 
     in section 1072(3) of title 10, United States Code.
     SEC. 743. NOTIFICATION OF CERTAIN CHAMPUS COVERED 
                   BENEFICIARIES OF LOSS OF CHAMPUS ELIGIBILITY.
       Section 1086(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(4) The administering Secretaries shall develop a 
     mechanism by which persons described in paragraph (1) who 
     satisfy only the criteria specified in subparagraphs (A) and 
     (B) of paragraph (2), but not subparagraph (C) of such 
     paragraph, are promptly notified of their ineligibility for 
     health benefits under this section. The administering 
     Secretaries shall consult with the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services and the Health Care Financing Administration 
     regarding a method to promptly identify persons requiring 
     notice under this subsection.''.
     SEC. 744. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM TO TRAIN MILITARY MEDICAL 
                   PERSONNEL IN CIVILIAN SHOCK TRAUMA UNITS.
       (a) Demonstration Program.--Not later than April 1, 1996, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall implement a demonstration 
     program to evaluate the feasibility of providing shock trauma 
     training for military medical personnel through the use of 
     civilian hospitals. Pursuant to an agreement between the 
     Secretary and one or more public or nonprofit hospitals, the 
     Secretary shall assign military medical personnel 
     participating in the demonstration program to temporary duty 
     in shock trauma units operated by the hospitals that are 
     parties to the agreement. As consideration for the services 
     provided by military medical personnel under the agreement, 
     the agreement shall require the hospitals [[Page H5837]] to 
     provide appropriate care to members of the Armed Forces and 
     to other persons whose care in the hospital would otherwise 
     require reimbursement by the Secretary. The value of the 
     services provided by the hospitals shall be at least equal to 
     the value of the services provided by military medical 
     personnel under the agreement.
       (b) Termination of Program.--The authority of the Secretary 
     of Defense to conduct the demonstration program under this 
     section, and any agreement entered into under the 
     demonstration program, shall expire on March 31, 1998.
       (c) Report and Evaluation of Program.--(1) Not later than 
     March 1 of each year in which the demonstration program is 
     conducted under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to Congress a report describing the scope and 
     activities of the demonstration program during the preceding 
     year.
       (2) Not later than May 1, 1998, the Comptroller General of 
     the United States shall submit to Congress a report 
     evaluating the effectiveness of the demonstration program in 
     providing shock trauma training for military medical 
     personnel.
     SEC. 745. STUDY REGARDING DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EFFORTS TO 
                   DETERMINE APPROPRIATE FORCE LEVELS OF WARTIME 
                   MEDICAL PERSONNEL.
       (a) Study Required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
     States shall conduct a study to evaluate the reasonableness 
     of the models used by each military department for 
     determining the appropriate wartime force level for medical 
     personnel in the department. The study shall include the 
     following:
       (1) An assessment of the modeling techniques used by each 
     department.
       (2) An analysis of the data used in the models to identify 
     medical personnel requirements.
       (3) An identification of the ability of the models to 
     integrate personnel of reserve components to meet department 
     requirements.
       (4) An evaluation of the ability of the Secretary of 
     Defense to integrate the various modeling efforts into a 
     comprehensive, coordinated plan for obtaining the optimum 
     force level for wartime medical personnel.
       (b) Report of Study.--Not later than June 30, 1996, the 
     Comptroller General shall report to Congress on the results 
     of the study conducted under subsection (a).
     SEC. 746. STUDY REGARDING EXPANDED MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR 
                   CERTAIN COVERED BENEFICIARIES.
       (a) Study Required.--In connection with the mental health 
     services already available for covered beneficiaries under 
     chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, who are children 
     and require residential treatment, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall conduct a study regarding the feasibility of expanding 
     such services to include a program of individualized 
     continued care following completion of the residential 
     treatment to compliment the residential treatment and prevent 
     recidivism.
       (b) Report of Study.--Not later than March 1, 1996, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report 
     describing the results of the study conducted under 
     subsection (a).
     SEC. 747. REPORT ON IMPROVED ACCESS TO MILITARY HEALTH CARE 
                   FOR COVERED BENEFICIARIES ENTITLED TO MEDICARE.
       Not later than March 1, 1996, the Secretary of Defense 
     shall submit to Congress a report evaluating the feasibility, 
     costs, and consequences for the military health care system 
     of improving access to the system for covered beneficiaries 
     under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, who have 
     limited access to military medical treatment facilities and 
     are ineligible for the Civilian Health and Medical Program of 
     the Uniformed Services under section 1086(d)(1) of such 
     title. The alternatives the Secretary shall consider to 
     improve access for such covered beneficiaries shall include--
       (1) whether CHAMPUS should serve as a second payer for 
     covered beneficiaries who are entitled to hospital insurance 
     benefits under part A of title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 1395c et seq.); and
       (2) whether such covered beneficiaries should be offered 
     enrollment in the Federal Employees Health Benefits program 
     under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
     SEC. 748. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CONTINUITY OF HEALTH CARE 
                   SERVICES FOR COVERED BENEFICIARIES ADVERSELY 
                   AFFECTED BY CLOSURES OF MILITARY MEDICAL 
                   TREATMENT FACILITIES.
       (a) Finding.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) Military installations selected for closure in the 1991 
     and 1993 rounds of the base closure process are approaching 
     their closing dates.
       (2) Additional military installations are being selected 
     for closure in the 1995 round of the base closure process.
       (3) As a result of these base closures, tens of thousands 
     of covered beneficiaries under chapter 55 of title 10, United 
     States Code, who reside in the vicinity of affected 
     installations will be left without immediate access to 
     military medical treatment facilities.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--In light of the findings specified 
     in subsection (a), it is the sense of Congress that the 
     Secretary of Defense should take all appropriate steps 
     necessary to ensure the continuation of medical and 
     pharmaceutical benefits to covered beneficiaries adversely 
     affected by the closure of military installations.
  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS
     SEC. 801. REPEALS OF CERTAIN PROCUREMENT PROVISIONS.
       (a) Post-Employment Restrictions.--Sections 2397, 2397a, 
     2397b, and 2397c of title 10, United States Code, are 
     repealed.
       (b) Limitation on Expenditure of Appropriations.--Section 
     2207 of such title is repealed.
       (c) Certain Delegation Authority.--Section 2356 of such 
     title is repealed.
       (d) Spare Parts Control.--Section 2383 of such title is 
     repealed.
       (e) Clerical Amendments.--(1) The table of sections at the 
     beginning of chapter 131 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking out the item relating to section 2207.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 139 
     of such title is amended by striking out the item relating to 
     section 2356.
       (3) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 141 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking out 
     the items relating to sections 2383, 2397, 2397a, 2397b, and 
     2397c.
     SEC. 802. FEES FOR CERTAIN TESTING SERVICES.
       Section 2539b(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting ``and indirect'' after ``recoup the 
     direct''.
     SEC. 803. TESTING OF DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
       (a) In General.--Section 2366 to title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking out ``survivability'' each place it appears 
     (including in the section heading) and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``vulnerability''; and
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) by striking out ``Survivability'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``Vulnerability''; and
       (B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(3) Testing should begin at the component, subsystem, and 
     subassembly level, culminating with tests of the complete 
     system configured for combat.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The item relating to such section 
     in the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 139 of 
     such title is amended to read as follows:
``2366. Major systems and munitions programs: vulnerability testing and 
              lethality testing required before full-scale 
              production.''.
     SEC. 804. COORDINATION AND COMMUNICATION OF DEFENSE RESEARCH 
                   ACTIVITIES.
       Section 2364 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)(5), by striking out ``milestone O, 
     milestone I, and milestone II'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``acquisition program''; and
       (2) in subsection (c), by striking out paragraphs (2), (3), 
     and (4) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
       ``(2) The term `acquisition program decisions' has the 
     meaning prescribed by the Secretary of Defense in 
     regulations.''.
     SEC. 805. ADDITION OF CERTAIN ITEMS TO DOMESTIC SOURCE 
                   LIMITATION.
       (a) Limitation.--Paragraph (3) of section 2534(a) of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(3) Vessel components.--(A) The following components of 
     vessels:
       ``(i) Air circuit breakers.
       ``(ii) Vessel propellers with a diameter of six feet or 
     more, if the propellers incorporate only castings poured and 
     finished in the United States.
       ``(iii) Welded shipboard anchor and mooring chain with a 
     diameter of four inches or less.
       ``(B) The following components of vessels, to the extent 
     they are unique to marine applications: ship and marine cable 
     assemblies, hose assemblies, hydraulics and pumps for 
     steering, gyrocompasses, marine autopilots, electronic 
     navigation chart systems, attitude and heading reference 
     units, power supplies, and steering controls.''.
       (b) Extension of Limitation Relating to Ball Bearings and 
     Roller Bearings.--Section 2534(c)(3) of such title is amended 
     by striking out ``October 1, 1995'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``October 1, 2000''.
       (c) Inapplicability of Simplified Acquisition Limitation to 
     Contracts for Ball Bearings and Roller Bearings.--Section 
     2534(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``This section''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(2) Paragraph (1) does not apply to contracts for items 
     described in subsection (a)(5) (relating to ball bearings and 
     roller bearings).''.
     SEC. 806. REVISIONS TO PROCUREMENT NOTICE PROVISIONS.
       Section 18(a) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy 
     Act (41 U.S.C. 416(a)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1)--
       (A) by striking out ``subsection (f)--'' and all that 
     follows through the end of the subparagraph and inserting in 
     lieu thereof ``subsection (b); and''; and
       (B) by inserting after ``property or services'' the 
     following: ``for a price expected to exceed $10,000 but not 
     to exceed $25,000'';
       (2) by striking out paragraph (4); and
       (3) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as paragraphs 
     (4) and (5), respectively.
     SEC. 808. ENCOURAGEMENT OF USE OF LEASING AUTHORITY.
       (a) In General.--(1) Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2316 the 
     following new section:
     ``Sec. 2317. Equipment leasing
       ``The Secretary of Defense shall authorize and encourage 
     the use of leasing in the acquisition of equipment whenever 
     such leasing is practicable and otherwise authorized by 
     law.''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
``2317. Equipment leasing.''.
       (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to Congress a report setting forth changes in legislation 
     that would be required in order to facilitate the use of 
     leases by the Department of Defense in the acquisition of 
     equipment.
      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
     SEC. 901. REORGANIZATION OF OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF 
                   DEFENSE.
       (a) Reorganization.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry 
     out in accordance with this section a reorganization of the 
     Office of the Secretary of Defense. The reorganization shall 
     include a substantial streamlining and reduction in size of 
     that office, as provided in this section.
       (b) Plan for Reorganization.--The Secretary shall submit to 
     Congress a report setting forth a comprehensive plan by which 
     the Secretary will carry out the reorganization of the Office 
     of the Department of Defense required by this section. The 
     Secretary shall include in the report identification of all 
     provisions of law (or other congressional directives) that 
     preclude or inhibit any proposed reorganization or 
     streamlining of the Office of the Secretary of Defense set 
     forth in the plan. The report shall be submitted when the 
     budget of the President for fiscal year 1997 is submitted to 
     Congress.
       (c) Content of Plan.--The plan required by subsection (b) 
     shall enable the Secretary to accomplish the following:
       (1) Reduce the number of military and civilian personnel 
     assigned to, or employed in, the Office of the Secretary of 
     Defense by 25 percent over a period of four years, as 
     required by subsection (e).
       (2) Increase organizational efficiency and civilian 
     control.
       (3) Eliminate (or substantially reduce) duplication of 
     functions between the Office of the Secretary of Defense and 
     the military departments.
       (4) Eliminate (or substantially reduce) duplication of 
     functions between the Office of the Secretary of Defense and 
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
       (d) Development of Plan.--In developing the plan required 
     by subsection (b), the Secretary shall--
       (1) reassess the appropriate function and mission of the 
     Office of the Secretary of Defense;
       (2) reassess whether the current organization of the Office 
     of the Secretary of Defense provides the most efficient and 
     effective organization to support the Secretary in carrying 
     out the Secretary's responsibilities;
       (3) examine alternative organizational structures for that 
     office and alternative allocations of functional 
     responsibilities within that office, including--
       (A) a reduction in the number of Under Secretaries of 
     Defense;
       (B) a reduction in the number of Deputy Assistant 
     Secretaries of Defense and Deputy Under Secretaries of 
     Defense; and
       (C) decentralizing functions of the Office of the Secretary 
     of Defense; and
       (4) reassess the size, number, and functional allocation of 
     the Defense Agencies and other Department of Defense support 
     organizations.
       (e) Personnel Reduction.--(1) The number of military and 
     civilian personnel of the Department of Defense who as of 
     October 1, 1998, are assigned to, or employed in, functions 
     in the Office of the Secretary of Defense (including Direct 
     Support Activities of that Office and the Washington 
     Headquarters Services of the Department of Defense) may not 
     exceed 75 percent of the number of such personnel as of 
     October 1, 1994.
       (2) In carrying out reductions under paragraph (1), the 
     Secretary may not reassign functions solely in order to evade 
     the requirement contained in that paragraph.
       (f) Reduction in Number and Specification of Assistant 
     Secretary of Defense Positions.--(1) Section 138 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a), by striking out ``eleven'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``nine''; and
       (B) by striking out subsection (b) and inserting in lieu 
     thereof the following:
       ``(b) The Assistant Secretaries shall perform such duties 
     and exercise such powers as the Secretary of Defense may 
     prescribe.''.
       (2) Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
     by striking out ``(11)'' after ``Assistant Secretaries of 
     Defense'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``(9)''.
       (g) Repeal of Statutory Establishment of Various OSD 
     Positions.--(1)(A) The following sections of chapter 4 of 
     title 10, United States Code, are repealed: sections 133a, 
     134a, 137, 139, and 142.
       (B) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter 
     is amended by striking out the items relating to the sections 
     specified in paragraph (1).
       (2) Section 1056 is amended by striking out subsection (d).
       (h) Senior Staff Floor for Specified Assistant Secretary of 
     Defense.--Section 355 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1540) 
     is repealed.
       (i) Conforming Amendments to Title 10, United States 
     Code.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
       (1) Section 131(b) is amended--
       (A) by striking out paragraphs (6) and (8); and
       (B) by redesignating paragraphs (7), (9), (10), and (11), 
     as paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (9), respectively.
       (2) Section 138(d) is amended by striking out ``the Under 
     Secretaries of Defense, and the Director of Defense Research 
     and Engineering'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``and the 
     Under Secretaries of Defense''.
       (3) Section 176(a)(3) is amended--
       (A) by striking out ``Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
     Health Affairs'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``official in 
     the Department of Defense with principal responsibility for 
     health affairs''; and
       (B) by striking out ``Chief Medical Director of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``Under Secretary for Health of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs''.
       (4) Section 1216(d) is amended by striking out ``Assistant 
     Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs'' and inserting in 
     lieu thereof ``official in the Department of Defense with 
     principal responsibility for health affairs''.
       (5) Section 1587(d) is amended by striking out ``Assistant 
     Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Logistics'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``official in the Department of 
     Defense with principal responsibility for personnel and 
     readiness''.
       (6) The text of section 10201 is amended to read as 
     follows:
       ``The official in the Department of Defense with 
     responsibility for overall supervision of reserve component 
     affairs of the Department of Defense is the official 
     designated by the Secretary of Defense to have that 
     responsibility.''.
       (j) Conforming Amendments Relating to Operational Test and 
     Evaluation Authority.--Section 2399 of such title is 
     amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (2)--
       (i) by inserting ``a conventional weapons system that'' 
     after ``means'' in the matter preceding subparagraph (A); and
       (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking out ``a conventional 
     weapons system that''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall designate an official 
     of the Department of Defense to perform the duties of the 
     position referred to in this section as the `designated OT&amp;E 
     official'.'';
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) by striking out ``Director of Operational Test and 
     Evaluation of the Department of Defense'' in paragraph (1) 
     and inserting in lieu thereof ``designated OT&amp;E official''; 
     and
       (B) by striking out ``Director'' each place it appears in 
     paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``designated OT&amp;E official'';
       (3) in subsection (c), by striking out ``Director of 
     Operational Test and Evaluation of the Department of 
     Defense'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``designated OT&amp;E 
     official'';
       (4) in subsection (e), by striking out ``Director'' each 
     place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof ``designated 
     OT&amp;E official'';
       (5) by striking out subsection (g); and
       (6) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (g).
       (k) Other Conforming Amendment.--Section 1211(b)(2) of the 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1988 and 
     1989 (P.L. 100-180; 101 Stat 1155; 10 U.S.C. 167 note) is 
     amended by striking out ``the Assistant Secretary of Defense 
     for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``the official designated by the 
     Secretary of Defense to have principal responsibility for 
     matters relating to special operations and low intensity 
     conflict''.
     SEC. 902. RESTRUCTURING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
                   ORGANIZATION AND WORKFORCE.
       (a) Restructuring Report.--Not later than March 1, 1996, 
     the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on 
     the acquisition organization and workforce of the Department 
     of Defense. The report shall include--
       (1) the plan described in subsection (b); and
       (2) the assessment of streamlining and restructuring 
     options described in subsection (c).
       (b) Plan for Restructuring.--(1) The Secretary shall 
     include in the report under subsection (a) a plan on how to 
     restructure the current acquisition organization of the 
     Department of Defense in a manner that would enable the 
     Secretary to accomplish the following:
       (A) Reduce the number of military and civilian personnel 
     assigned to, or employed in, acquisition organizations of the 
     Department of Defense by 25 percent over a period of four 
     years, as required by subsection (d).
       (B) Eliminate duplication of functions among existing 
     acquisition organizations of the Department of Defense.
       (C) Maximize opportunity for consolidation among 
     acquisition organizations of the Department of Defense to 
     reduce management overhead.
       (2) In the report, the Secretary shall also identify any 
     statutory requirement or congressional directive that 
     inhibits any proposed restructuring plan or reduction in the 
     size of the defense acquisition organization.
       (3) In designing the plan under paragraph (1), the 
     Secretary shall give full consideration to the process 
     efficiencies expected to be achieved through the 
     implementation of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 
     1994 (Public Law 103-355) and other ongoing initiatives to 
     increase the use of commercial practices and reduce contract 
     overhead in the defense procurement system.
       (c) Assessment of Specified Restructuring Options.--The 
     Secretary shall include in the report under subsection (a) a 
     detailed assessment of each of the following options for 
     streamlining and restructuring the existing defense 
     acquisition organization, together with a specific 
     recommendation as to whether each such option should be 
     implemented:
       (1) Consolidation of certain functions of the Defense 
     Contract Audit Agency and the Defense Contract Management 
     Command.
       (2) Contracting for performance of a significant portion of 
     the workload of the Defense Contract Audit Agency and other 
     Defense Agencies that perform acquisition functions.
       (3) Consolidation or selected elimination of Department of 
     Defense acquisition organizations. [[Page H5839]] 
       (4) Any other defense acquisition infrastructure 
     streamlining or restructuring option the Secretary may 
     determine.
       (d) Reduction of Acquisition Workforce.--(1) Effective as 
     of October 1, 1998, the total number of defense acquisition 
     personnel may not exceed 75 percent of the total number of 
     defense acquisition personnel as of October 1, 1994.
       (2) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense 
     shall exempt personnel who possess technical competence in 
     trade-skill maintenance and repair positions involved in 
     performing depot maintenance functions for the Department of 
     Defense.
       (3) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense 
     shall accomplish reductions in defense acquisition personnel 
     positions during fiscal year 1996 so that the total number of 
     such personnel as of October 1, 1996, is less than the total 
     number of such personnel as of October 1, 1995, by at least 
     30,000.
       (4) For purposes of this section, the term ``defense 
     acquisition personnel'' means military and civilian personnel 
     of the Department of Defense assigned to, or employed in, 
     acquisition organizations of the Department of Defense.
       (e) Acquisition Organization Defined.--For purposes of this 
     section, acquisition organizations of the Department of 
     Defense are those organizations specified in Department of 
     Defense Instruction Numbered 5000.58, dated January 14, 1992.
     SEC. 903. PLAN FOR INCORPORATION OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 
                   NATIONAL SECURITY FUNCTIONS IN DEPARTMENT OF 
                   DEFENSE.
       (a) Report Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to Congress a report setting forth the Secretary's plan for 
     the incorporation into the Department of Defense of the 
     national security programs of the Department of Energy. The 
     plan submitted shall be one which could be implemented if the 
     Department of Energy is abolished and the national security 
     programs of that department are transferred to the Department 
     of Defense and consolidated with programs of the Department 
     of Defense.
       (b) Matters To Be Included.--The plan submitted in the 
     report under subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (1) A detailed plan for the integration into the Department 
     of Defense of the offices and laboratories of the Department 
     of Energy which could be anticipated to be transferred to the 
     Department of Defense as part of such a transfer of 
     functions.
       (2) An assessment of the personnel end-strength reductions 
     estimated to be achieved as a result of such a transfer of 
     functions.
       (3) An assessment of costs, or savings, associated with the 
     various transfer of function options.
       (4) An identification of all applicable provisions of law 
     that may inhibit or preclude such a transfer of functions.
       (c) Preservation of Integrity of DOE National Security 
     Programs.--In developing the plan under subsection (a), the 
     Secretary shall make every effort to ensure that the mission 
     and functioning of the national security programs of the 
     Department of Energy are not unduly affected adversely during 
     the transfer of those functions to the Department of Defense 
     and the consolidation of those functions into activities of 
     the Department.
       (d) Submission Of Report.--The report required under 
     subsection (a) shall be submitted not later than February 1, 
     1996.
     SEC. 904. CHANGE IN TITLES OF CERTAIN MARINE CORPS GENERAL 
                   OFFICER BILLETS RESULTING FROM REORGANIZATION 
                   OF THE HEADQUARTERS, MARINE CORPS.
       (a) Headquarters, Marine Corps, Function; Composition.--
     Subsection (b) of section 5041 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking out paragraphs (2) through (5) 
     and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
       ``(2) The Vice Commandant of the Marine Corps.
       ``(3) The Director of the Marine Corps Staff.
       ``(4) The Deputy Commandants of the Marine Corps.
       ``(5) The Assistant Commandants of the Marine Corps.''.
       (b) Vice Commandant.--(1) Section 5044 of such title is 
     amended by striking out ``Assistant Commandant'' each place 
     it appears and inserting in lieu thereof ``Vice Commandant''.
       (2) The heading of such section is amended to read as 
     follows:
     ``Sec. 5044. Vice Commandant of the Marine Corps''.
       (c) Director of the Marine Corps Staff; Deputy and 
     Assistant Commandants.--Section 5045 of such title is amended 
     to read as follows:
     ``Sec. 5045. Director of the Marine Corps Staff; Deputy and 
       Assistant Commandants
       ``(a) There are in the Headquarters, Marine Corps, the 
     following:
       ``(1) A Director of the Marine Corps Staff.
       ``(2) Not more than five Deputy Commandants of the Marine 
     Corps.
       ``(3) Not more than three Assistant Commandants of the 
     Marine Corps.
       ``(b) The officers specified in subsection (a) shall be 
     detailed by the Secretary of the Navy from officers on the 
     active-duty list of the Marine Corps.''.
       (d) Clerical Amendment.--The items relating to sections 
     5044 and 5045 in the table of sections at the beginning of 
     chapter 506 of such title are amended to read as follows:
``5044. Vice Commandant of the Marine Corps.
``5045. Director of the Marine Corps Staff; Deputy and Assistant 
              Commandants.''.
     SEC. 905. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENT 
                   COLLEGE IN THE NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY.
       (a) Technical Amendment and Addition of Information 
     Resources Management College to the Definition of the 
     National Defense University.--Section 1595(d)(2) of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking out ``the 
     Institute for National Strategic Study,'' and inserting in 
     lieu thereof ``the Institute for National Strategic Studies, 
     the Information Resources Management College,''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2162(d)(2) of such title 
     is amended by inserting ``the Institute for National 
     Strategic Studies, the Information Resources Management 
     College,'' after ``the Armed Forces Staff College,''.
     SEC. 906. EMPLOYMENT OF CIVILIANS AT THE ASIA-PACIFIC CENTER 
                   FOR SECURITY STUDIES.
       Section 1595 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(4) The Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies.''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(f) Application to Director and Deputy Director at Asia-
     Pacific Center for Security Studies.--In the case of the 
     Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, this section also 
     applies with respect to the Director and the Deputy 
     Director.''.
     SEC. 907. CONTINUED OPERATION OF UNIFORMED SERVICES 
                   UNIVERSITY OF THE HEALTH SCIENCES.
       (a) Closure Prohibited.--In light of the important role of 
     the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in 
     providing trained health care providers for the uniformed 
     services, Congress reaffirms the requirement contained in 
     section 922 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337; 108 Stat 2829) that the 
     Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences may not 
     be closed.
       (b) Budgetary Commitment to Continuation.--It is the sense 
     of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should budget for 
     the operation of the Uniformed Services University of the 
     Health Sciences during fiscal year 1997 at a level at least 
     equal to the level of operations conducted at the University 
     during fiscal year 1995.
     SEC. 908. REDESIGNATION OF ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY.
       (a) Redesignation.--The agency in the Department of Defense 
     known as the Advanced Research Projects Agency shall after 
     the date of the enactment of this Act be designated as the 
     Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
       (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, 
     document, record, or other paper of the United States to the 
     Advanced Research Projects Agency shall be considered to be a 
     reference to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS
                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters
     SEC. 1001. TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
       (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--(1) Upon 
     determination by the Secretary of Defense that such action is 
     necessary in the national interest, the Secretary may 
     transfer amounts of authorizations made available to the 
     Department of Defense in this division for fiscal year 1996 
     between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any 
     subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so 
     transferred shall be merged with and be available for the 
     same purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
       (2) The total amount of authorizations that the Secretary 
     of Defense may transfer under the authority of this section 
     may not exceed $2,000,000,000.
       (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by this section to 
     transfer authorizations--
       (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that 
     have a higher priority than the items from which authority is 
     transferred; and
       (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that 
     has been denied authorization by Congress.
       (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from 
     one account to another under the authority of this section 
     shall be deemed to increase the amount authorized for the 
     account to which the amount is transferred by an amount equal 
     to the amount transferred.
     SEC. 1002. INCORPORATION OF CLASSIFIED ANNEX.
       (a) Status of Classified Annex.--The Classified Annex 
     prepared by the Committee on National Security of the <strong>House</strong> 
     of Representatives to accompany the bill H.R. 1530 of the One 
     Hundred Fourth Congress and transmitted to the President is 
     hereby incorporated into this Act.
       (b) Construction With Other Provisions of Act.--The amounts 
     specified in the Classified Annex are not in addition to 
     amounts authorized to be appropriated by other provisions of 
     this Act.
       (c) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Funds appropriated 
     pursuant to an authorization contained in this Act that are 
     made available for a program, project, or activity referred 
     to in the Classified Annex may only be expended for such 
     program, project, or activity in accordance with such terms, 
     conditions, limitations, restrictions, and requirements as 
     are set out for that program, project, or activity in the 
     Classified Annex.
       (d) Distribution of Classified Annex.--The President shall 
     provide for appropriate distribution of the Classified Annex, 
     or of appropriate portions of the annex, within the executive 
     branch of the Government.
     SEC. 1003. IMPROVED FUNDING MECHANISMS FOR UNBUDGETED 
                   OPERATIONS.
       (a) Revision of Funding Mechanism.--(1) Chapter 3 of title 
     10, United States Code, is [[Page H5840]] amended by striking 
     out section 127a and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
     ``Sec. 127a. Operations for which funds are not provided in 
       advance: funding mechanisms
       ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall use 
     the procedures prescribed by this section with respect to any 
     operation of the Department of Defense--
       ``(A) that involves the deployment (other than for a 
     training exercise) of elements of the armed forces for a 
     purpose other than a purpose for which funds have been 
     specifically provided in advance; or
       ``(B) that involves humanitarian assistance, disaster 
     relief, or support for law enforcement (including immigration 
     control) for which funds have not been specifically provided 
     in advance.
       ``(2) Whenever any operation described in paragraph (1) is 
     commenced, the Secretary of Defense shall designate and 
     identify that operation for the purposes of this section and 
     shall promptly notify Congress of that designation (and of 
     the identification of the operation).
       ``(3) This section does not provide authority for the 
     President or the Secretary of Defense to carry out any 
     operation, but establishes mechanisms for the Department of 
     Defense by which funds are provided for operations that the 
     armed forces are required to carry out under some other 
     authority.
       ``(b) Waiver of Requirement To Reimburse Support Units.--
     (1) The Secretary of Defense shall direct that, when a unit 
     of the armed forces participating in an operation described 
     in subsection (a) receives services from an element of the 
     Department of Defense that operates through the Defense 
     Business Operations Fund (or a successor fund), such unit of 
     the armed forces may not be required to reimburse that 
     element for the incremental costs incurred by that element in 
     providing such services, notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law or any Government accounting practice.
       ``(2) The amounts which but for paragraph (1) would be 
     required to be reimbursed to an element of the Department of 
     Defense (or a fund) shall be recorded as an expense 
     attributable to the operation and shall be accounted for 
     separately.
       ``(c) Transfer Authority.--(1) Whenever there is an 
     operation of the Department of Defense described in 
     subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may, subject to the 
     provisions of appropriations Acts, transfer amounts described 
     in paragraph (3) to accounts from which incremental expenses 
     for that operation were incurred in order to reimburse those 
     accounts for those incremental expenses. Amounts so 
     transferred shall be merged with and be available for the 
     same purposes as the accounts to which transferred.
       ``(2) The total amount that the Secretary of Defense may 
     transfer under the authority of this section in any fiscal 
     year is $200,000,000.
       ``(3) Transfers under this subsection may only be made from 
     amounts appropriated to the Department of Defense for any 
     fiscal year that remain available for obligation from any of 
     the following accounts:
       ``(A) Environmental Restoration, Defense.
       ``(B) Cooperative Threat Reduction programs.
       ``(C) Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid 
     (OHDACA) programs.
       ``(D) Operations and Maintenance, Defense-Wide (but only 
     from funds available for administration and service-wide 
     activities).
       ``(4) The authority provided by this subsection is in 
     addition to any other authority provided by law authorizing 
     the transfer of amounts available to the Department of 
     Defense. However, the Secretary may not use any such 
     authority under another provision of law for a purpose 
     described in paragraph (1) if there is authority available 
     under this subsection for that purpose.
       ``(5) The authority provided by this subsection to transfer 
     amounts may not be used to provide authority for an activity 
     that has been denied authorization by Congress.
       ``(6) A transfer made from one account to another under the 
     authority of this subsection shall be deemed to increase the 
     amount authorized for the account to which the amount is 
     transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
       ``(d) Financial Plan.--(1) Within 30 days after the 
     beginning of an operation described in subsection (a), the 
     Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a financial 
     plan for the operation that sets forth the manner by which 
     the Secretary proposes to obtain funds for the cost to the 
     United States of the operation. The plan shall specify in 
     detail how the Secretary proposes to restore balances in the 
     Defense Business Operations Fund (or a successor fund) to the 
     levels that would have been anticipated but for the 
     provisions of subsection (b). The Secretary may not include 
     in such a plan a means to restore such balances that is 
     prohibited by paragraph (2) or (4).
       ``(2) The Secretary may not restore (or propose in a plan 
     under paragraph (1) to restore) balances in the Defense 
     Business Operations Fund through increases in rates charged 
     by that fund in order to compensate for costs incurred and 
     not reimbursed due to subsection (b).
       ``(3) If the Secretary of Defense transfers funds under 
     subsection (c), the Secretary shall submit to Congress, 
     within 30 days of such transfer, a plan for the restoration 
     of the balance in the each account from which the transfer 
     was made to the level that would have been the case but for 
     the transfer.
       ``(4) The Secretary may not restore (or propose in a plan 
     under paragraph (1) or (3) to restore) balances in any the 
     Defense Business Operations Fund or any other fund or account 
     through the use of unobligated amounts in an appropriation 
     made for operation and maintenance that are available within 
     that appropriation for an account (known as a budget activity 
     1 account) that is specified as being for operating forces.
       ``(e) Submission of Requests for Supplemental 
     Appropriations.--(1) Whenever there is an operation described 
     in subsection (a), the President shall submit to Congress a 
     request for the enactment of supplemental appropriations for 
     the then-current fiscal year, to be designated as an 
     emergency supplemental appropriations, in order to provide 
     funds to replenish the Defense Business Operations Fund or 
     any other fund or account of the Department of Defense from 
     which funds for the incremental expenses of that operation 
     were derived under this section.
       ``(2) A request under paragraph (1) shall be submitted not 
     later than the earlier of (A) the time at which incremental 
     expenses for the operation exceed $10,000,000, or (B) 90 days 
     after the date on which the operation begins. The request 
     shall be submitted as a separate request from any other 
     legislative proposal.
       ``(f) Incremental Costs.--For purposes of this section, 
     incremental costs of the Department of Defense with respect 
     to an operation are the costs of the Department that are 
     directly attributable to the operation (and would not have 
     been incurred but for the operation).
       ``(g) Relationship to War Powers Resolution.--This section 
     may not be construed as altering or superseding the War 
     Powers Resolution. This section does not provide authority to 
     conduct any military operation.
       ``(h) GAO Compliance Reviews.--The Comptroller General of 
     the United States shall from time to time, and when requested 
     by a committee of Congress, conduct a review of the defense 
     funding structure under this section to determine whether the 
     Department of Defense is complying with the requirements and 
     limitations of this section.
     ``Sec. 127b. Budgeting for ongoing operations
       ``(a) Requirement for Inclusion in Budget.--In the case of 
     an operation of the Department of Defense described in 
     subsection (c), the President shall include with the budget 
     submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31 
     for the next fiscal year a specific request for enactment of 
     legislation to provide for the provision of funds for such 
     operation for that fiscal year in a manner that will result 
     in there not being a lower amount of funds available to the 
     Department of Defense for that fiscal year than would be the 
     case if that operation were not carried out during that year. 
     Such a request shall include one or more of the following:
       ``(1) A request for enactment of appropriation of funds for 
     the incremental costs for that operation that are expected to 
     be incurred by the Department of Defense during the fiscal 
     year for which the budget is submitted, with such funds to be 
     provided in, and charged to, a budget function other than the 
     national defense budget function (function 050).
       ``(2) A request for enactment of appropriation of funds for 
     the incremental costs for that operation that are expected to 
     be incurred by the Department of Defense during the fiscal 
     year for which the budget is submitted, with such 
     designations or waivers as may be necessary to ensure that 
     (if enacted) such appropriations are not counted against the 
     total amount of funds for the Department of Defense, or for 
     the national defense budget function, for purpose of any 
     statutory limitation or restriction.
       ``(3) A request for enactment of rescissions.
       ``(b) Limitation.--In the case of any operation to which 
     the requirement of subsection (a) applies, no funds may be 
     obligated or expended for that operation after the beginning 
     of the fiscal year for which the budget is submitted if the 
     requirement in subsection (a) is not complied with.
       ``(c) Covered Operations.--This section applies with 
     respect to any operation of the Department of Defense 
     involving the use of the Armed Forces that--
       ``(1) is ongoing in the first quarter of a fiscal year;
       ``(2) is not expected to end during the current fiscal 
     year;
       ``(3) for which appropriations were not specifically 
     provided in advance for the current fiscal year.
       ``(d) Waiver Authority.--The President may waive the 
     provisions of this section for any fiscal year--
       ``(1) during which there is in effect a declaration of war; 
     or
       ``(2) during which authority is in effect pursuant to 
     section 12302 of this title to order units and members of the 
     Ready Reserve to active duty without the consent of the 
     persons concerned.''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter 
     is amended by striking out the item relating to section 127a 
     and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
``127a. Operations for which funds are not provided in advance: funding 
              mechanisms.
``127b. Budgeting for ongoing operations.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment to section 127a of title 
     10, United States Code, made by subsection (a) shall take 
     effect on October 1, 1995, and shall apply to any operation 
     of the Department of Defense, whether begun before, on, or 
     after such date. In the case of any operation begun before 
     such date, any reference in such section to the date of the 
     beginning of such operation shall be treated as referring to 
     the effective date under the preceding sentence.
     SEC. 1004. DESIGNATION AND LIABILITY OF DISBURSING AND 
                   CERTIFYING OFFICIALS.
       (a) Disbursing Officials.--(1) Section 3321(c) of title 31, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking out paragraph (2) 
     and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
       ``(2) The Department of Defense.
       ``(3) The Coast Guard (when not operating as a service in 
     the Navy).''. [[Page H5841]] 
       (2) Section 2773 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)--
       (i) by striking out ``With the approval of the Secretary of 
     a military department when the Secretary considers it 
     necessary, a disbursing official of the military department'' 
     and inserting in lieu thereof ``Subject to paragraph (3), a 
     disbursing official of the Department of Defense''; and
       (ii) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) A disbursing official may make a designation under 
     paragraph (1) only with the approval of the Secretary of 
     Defense or, in the case of a disbursing official of a 
     military department, the Secretary of that military 
     department.''; and
       (B) in subsection (b)(1)--
       (i) by striking out ``any military department'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``the Department of Defense''; and
       (ii) by striking out ``2d month'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``second month''.
       (b) Designation of Members of the Armed Forces To Have 
     Authority To Certify Vouchers.--(1) Section 3325(b) of title 
     31, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) In addition to officers and employees referred to in 
     subsection (a)(1)(B) of this section as having authorization 
     to certify vouchers, the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Secretary of Transportation (with respect to the Coast Guard 
     when it is not operating as a service in the Navy) may 
     authorize, in writing, members of the armed forces under 
     their jurisdiction to certify vouchers.''.
       (2) Section 3528(d) of title 31, United States Code, is 
     repealed.
       (c) Relief of Accountable Officials and Agents From 
     Liability.--Section 3527(b)(1) of title 31, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking out ``armed forces'' in the matter 
     preceding subparagraph (A) and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``Department of Defense or the Coast Guard''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking out ``appropriate 
     Secretary of the military department of the Department of 
     Defense'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``Secretary of 
     Transportation (with respect to the Coast Guard when it is 
     not operating as a service in the Navy)''.
       (d) Conforming Amendments.--(1) Section 1012 of title 37, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking out ``Secretary 
     concerned'' both places it appears and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``Secretary of Defense''.
       (2)(A) Section 7863 of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (i) in the first sentence, by striking out ``disbursements 
     of public moneys or'' and ``the money was paid or''; and
       (ii) in the second sentence, by striking out ``disbursement 
     or''.
       (B)(i) The heading of such section is amended to read as 
     follows:
     ``Sec. 7863. Disposal of public stores by order of commanding 
       officer''.
       (ii) The item relating to such section in the table of 
     sections at the beginning of chapter 661 of such title is 
     amended to read as follows:
``7863. Disposal of public stores by order of commanding officer.''.
     SEC. 1005. AUTHORITY FOR OBLIGATION OF CERTAIN UNAUTHORIZED 
                   FISCAL YEAR 1995 DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS.
       (a) Authority.--The amounts described in subsection (b) may 
     be obligated and expended for programs, projects, and 
     activities of the Department of Defense in accordance with 
     fiscal year 1995 defense appropriations.
       (b) Covered Amounts.--The amounts referred to in subsection 
     (a) are the amounts provided for programs, projects, and 
     activities of the Department of Defense in fiscal year 1995 
     defense appropriations that are in excess of the amounts 
     provided for such programs, projects, and activities in 
     fiscal year 1995 defense authorizations.
       (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
       (1) Fiscal year 1995 defense appropriations.--The term 
     ``fiscal year 1995 defense appropriations'' means amounts 
     appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of 
     Defense for fiscal year 1995 in the Department of Defense 
     Appropriations Act, 1995 (Public Law 103-335).
       (2) Fiscal year 1995 defense authorizations.--The term 
     ``fiscal year 1995 defense authorizations'' means amounts 
     authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense 
     for fiscal year 1995 in the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337).
     SEC. 1006. AUTHORIZATION OF PRIOR EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL 
                   APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 1995.
       (a) Adjustment to Previous Authorizations.--Amounts 
     authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Defense 
     for fiscal year 1995 in the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337) are hereby 
     adjusted, with respect to any such authorized amount, by the 
     amount by which appropriations pursuant to such authorization 
     were increased (by a supplemental appropriation) or decreased 
     (by a rescission), or both, in title I of the Emergency 
     Supplemental Appropriations and Rescissions for the 
     Department of Defense to Preserve and Enhance Military 
     Readiness Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-6).
       (b) New Authorization.--The appropriation provided in 
     section 104 of such Act is hereby authorized.
     SEC. 1007. PROHIBITION OF INCREMENTAL FUNDING OF PROCUREMENT 
                   ITEMS.
       Section 114 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(f)(1) No funds may be appropriated, or authorized to be 
     appropriated, for any fiscal year for a purpose named in 
     paragraph (1), (3), (4), or (5) of subsection (a) using 
     incremental funding.
       ``(2) In the budget submitted by the President for any 
     fiscal year, the President may not request appropriations, or 
     authorization of appropriations, on the basis of incremental 
     funding for a purpose specified in paragraph (1).
       ``(3) In this subsection, the term `incremental funding' 
     means the provision of funds for a fiscal year for a 
     procurement in less than the full amount required for 
     procurement of a complete and usable product, with the 
     expectation (or plan) for additional funding to be made for 
     subsequent fiscal years to complete the procurement of a 
     complete and usable product.
       ``(4) This subsection does not apply with respect to 
     funding classified as advance procurement funding.''.
                Subtitle B--Naval Vessels and Shipyards
     SEC. 1021. CONTRACT OPTIONS FOR LMSR VESSELS.
       (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) A requirement for the Department of the Navy to acquire 
     19 large, medium-speed, roll-on/roll-off (LMSR) vessels was 
     established by the Secretary of Defense in the Mobility 
     Requirements Study conducted after the Persian Gulf War 
     pursuant to section 909 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1623) 
     and was revalidated by the Secretary of Defense in the report 
     entitled ``Mobility Requirements Study Bottom-Up Review 
     Update'', submitted to Congress in April 1995.
       (2) The Strategic Sealift Program is a vital element of the 
     national military strategy calling for the Nation to be able 
     to fight and win two nearly simultaneous major regional 
     contingencies.
       (3) The Secretary of the Navy has entered into contracts 
     with shipyards covering acquisition of a total of 17 such 
     LMSR vessels, of which five are vessel conversions and 12 are 
     new construction vessels. Under those contracts, the 
     Secretary has placed orders for the acquisition of 11 vessels 
     and has options for the acquisition of six more, all of which 
     would be new construction vessels. The options allow the 
     Secretary to place orders for one vessel to be constructed at 
     each of two shipyards for award before December 31, 1995, 
     December 31, 1996, and December 31, 1997, respectively.
       (4) Acquisition of an additional two such LMSR vessels, for 
     a total of 19 vessels (the requirement described in paragraph 
     (1)) would contribute to preservation of the industrial base 
     of United States shipyards capable of building auxiliary and 
     sealift vessels.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the Secretary of the Navy should plan for, and budget to 
     provide for, the acquisition as soon as possible of a total 
     of 19 large, medium-speed, roll-on/roll-off (LMSR) vessels 
     (the number determined to be required in the Mobility 
     Requirements Study referred to in subsection (a)(1)), rather 
     than only 17 such vessels (the number of vessels under 
     contract as of May 1995).
       (c) Additional New Construction Contract Option.--The 
     Secretary of the Navy should negotiate with each of the two 
     shipyards holding new construction contracts referred to in 
     subsection (a)(3) (Department of the Navy contracts numbered 
     N00024-93-C-2203 and N00024-93-C-2205) for an option under 
     each such contract for construction of one additional such 
     LMSR vessel, with such option to be available to the 
     Secretary for exercise during 1995, 1996, or 1997.
       (d) Report.--The Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the 
     congressional defense committees, by March 31, 1996, a report 
     stating the intentions of the Secretary regarding the 
     acquisition of options for the construction of two additional 
     LMSR vessels as described in subsection (c).
     SEC. 1022. VESSELS SUBJECT TO REPAIR UNDER PHASED MAINTENANCE 
                   CONTRACTS.
       (a) In General.--(1) Chapter 633 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     section:
     ``Sec. 7315. Phased maintenance contracts: vessels covered
       ``In any case in which the Secretary of the Navy enters 
     into a contract for the phased maintenance of a class of 
     vessels or vessels of an identified type, the Secretary shall 
     ensure that--
       ``(1) any vessel that is covered by the contract when it is 
     entered into remains covered by the contract, regardless of 
     operating command to which the vessel is subsequently 
     assigned, unless the vessel is taken out of service for the 
     Department of the Navy; and
       ``(2) any vessel of a class or type covered by the contract 
     that is delivered to the Navy while the contract is in effect 
     is covered by the contract.''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter 
     is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
``7315. Phased maintenance contracts: vessels covered.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--Section 7315 of title 10, United 
     States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with 
     respect to contracts entered into after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
     SEC. 1023. CLARIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO REPAIRS 
                   OF VESSELS.
       Section 7310(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
     by inserting ``or Guam'' after ``the United States'' the 
     second place it appears.
     SEC. 1024. NAMING OF NAVAL VESSEL.
       It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Navy 
     should name an appropriate ship of the United States Navy the 
     U.S.S. Joseph Vittori, in honor of Marine Corporal Joseph 
     Vittori (1929-1951) of Beverly, Massachusetts, who was 
     posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for actions against 
     the enemy in Korea on September 15-16, 1951.
     SEC. 1025. TRANSFER OF RIVERINE PATROL CRAFT.
       (a) Authority To Transfer Vessel.--Notwithstanding 
     subsections (a) and (d) of section 7306 of title 10, United 
     States Code, but subject to subsections (b) and (c) of that 
     section, the Secretary of the Navy may transfer a vessel 
     described in subsection (b) to Tidewater Community College, 
     Portsmouth, Virginia, for scientific and educational 
     purposes.
       (b) Vessel.--The authority under subsection (a) applies in 
     the case of a riverine patrol craft of the U.S.S. Swift 
     class.
       (c) Limitation.--The transfer authorized by subsection (a) 
     may be made only if the Secretary determines that the vessel 
     to be transferred is of no further use to the United States 
     for national security purposes.
       (d) Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
     terms and conditions in connection with the transfer 
     authorized by this section as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters
     SEC. 1031. TERMINATION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES 
                   REGARDING NATIONAL DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY AND 
                   INDUSTRIAL BASE, DEFENSE REINVESTMENT, AND 
                   DEFENSE CONVERSION PROGRAMS.
       (a) Congressional Defense Policy.--Section 2501 of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking out paragraph (5); and
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) by striking out ``Defense Reinvestment, 
     Diversification, and Conversion'' in the subsection heading 
     and inserting in lieu thereof ``Technology Development for 
     National Security'';
       (B) by striking out ``, during a period of reduction in 
     defense expenditures,'' in the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1);
       (C) by striking out ``of reinvestment, diversification, and 
     conversion of defense resources'' in the matter preceding 
     paragraph (1); and
       (D) in paragraph (5), by striking out ``defense economic 
     reinvestment'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``economic 
     investment''.
       (b) National Defense Technology and Industrial Base 
     Council.--Section 2502(c) of such title is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking out ``, during a 
     period of reduction in defense expenditures, the defense 
     reinvestment, diversification, and conversion objectives'' 
     and inserting in lieu thereof ``the objectives'';
       (2) by striking out paragraph (2); and
       (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
       (c) Modification of Defense Dual-Use Critical Technology 
     Partnerships Program.--(1) Subsection (a) of section 2511 of 
     such title is amended--
       (A) by striking out ``Partnerships'' in the subsection 
     heading and inserting in lieu thereof ``Program'';
       (B) in the first sentence, by striking out ``, by providing 
     for the establishment'' and all that follows through 
     ``encourage and provide'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``by 
     encouraging and providing'';
       (C) in the second sentence, by striking out ``in order to 
     establish the partnerships'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``in furtherance of the program''; and
       (D) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
     Secretary shall identify projects to be conducted as part of 
     the program.''.
       (2) Such section is further amended by striking out 
     subsections (b), (c), and (d) and inserting in lieu thereof 
     the following new subsection:
       ``(b) Assistance Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may 
     provide technical and other assistance to facilitate the 
     achievement of the purposes of projects conducted under the 
     program. In providing such assistance, the Secretary may make 
     available, as appropriate for the work to be performed, 
     equipment and facilities of Department of Defense 
     laboratories (including the scientists and engineers at those 
     laboratories) for purposes of projects selected by the 
     Secretary.''.
       (3) Such section is further amended--
       (A) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), and (g), as 
     subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively;
       (B) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by striking out 
     ``establishment of partnerships'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``conduct of the program''; and
       (C) in subsection (d), as so redesignated--
       (i) by striking out ``proposed partnerships for 
     establishment under this section'' in the matter preceding 
     paragraph (1) and inserting in lieu thereof ``projects under 
     the program'';
       (ii) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking out ``program 
     proposed to be conducted by the partnership'' both places it 
     appears and inserting in lieu thereof ``proposed project'';
       (iii) in paragraph (3), by striking out ``partnership's'' 
     and inserting in lieu thereof ``proposed project's''; and
       (iv) in paragraphs (4) through (7), by striking out 
     ``partnership'' each place it appears and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``project''.
       (d) Repeal of Commercial-Military Integration Partnerships 
     Program.--Section 2512 of such title is repealed.
       (e) Repeal of Regional Technology Alliances Assistance 
     Program.--Section 2513 of such title is repealed.
       (f) Military-Civilian Integration and Technology Transfer 
     Advisory Board.--Section 2516(b) of such title is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``and'' at the end of paragraph (2);
       (2) by striking out ``; and'' at the end of paragraph (3) 
     and inserting in lieu thereof a period; and
       (3) by striking out paragraph (4).
       (g) Federal Defense Laboratory Diversification Program.--
     Section 2519 of such title is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b), by striking out ``referred to in 
     section 2511(b) of this title'';
       (2) in subsection (d)--
       (A) by striking out ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary shall''; 
     and
       (B) by striking out paragraph (2); and
       (3) in subsection (f), by striking out ``section 2511(f)'' 
     and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 2511(d)''.
       (h) Repeal of Navy Reinvestment Program.--Section 2520 of 
     such title is repealed.
       (i) Repeal of National Defense Manufacturing Technology 
     Program.--Section 2521 of such title is repealed.
       (j) Repeal of Defense Advanced Manufacturing Technology 
     Partnerships Program.--Section 2522 of such title is 
     repealed.
       (k) Repeal of Manufacturing Extension Program.--Section 
     2523 of such title is repealed.
       (l) Repeal of Defense Dual-Use Assistance Extension 
     Program.--Section 2524 of such title is repealed.
       (m) Clerical Amendments.--(1) The heading of section 2511 
     of such title is amended to read as follows:
     ``Sec. 2511. Defense dual-use critical technology program''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter 
     III of chapter 148 of such title is amended--
       (A) by striking out the item relating to section 2511 and 
     inserting in lieu thereof the following new item:
``2511. Defense dual-use critical technology program.''; and
       (B) by striking out the items relating to sections 2512, 
     2513, and 2520.
       (3) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter IV 
     of such chapter is amended by striking out the items relating 
     to sections 2521, 2522, 2523, and 2524.
     SEC. 1032. REPEAL OF MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS OF LAW.
       (a) Volunteers Investing in Peace and Security Program.--
     (1) Chapter 89 of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
       (2) The tables of chapters at the beginning of subtitle A, 
     and at the beginning of part II of subtitle A, of such title 
     are amended by striking out the item relating to chapter 89.
       (b) Security and Control of Supplies.--(1) Chapter 171 of 
     such title is repealed.
       (2) The tables of sections at the beginning of subtitle A, 
     and at the beginning of part IV of subtitle A, of such title 
     are each amended by striking out the item relating to chapter 
     171.
       (c) Annual Authorization of Military Training Student 
     Loads.--Section 115 of such title is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking out paragraph (3);
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) by inserting ``or'' at the end of paragraph (1);
       (B) by striking out ``; or'' at the end of paragraph (2) 
     and inserting in lieu thereof a period; and
       (C) by striking out paragraph (3); and
       (3) by striking out subsection (f).
       (d) Portions of Annual Manpower Requirements Report.--
     Section 115a of such title is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)(2), by striking out subparagraph (C);
       (2) by striking out subsection (d);
       (3) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d) and 
     striking out paragraphs (4) and (5) thereof;
       (4) by striking out subsection (f); and
       (5) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (e).
       (e) Obsolete Authority for Payment of Stipends for Members 
     of Certain Advisory Committees and Boards of Visitors of 
     Service Academies.--(1) The second sentence of each of 
     sections 173(b) and 174(b) of such title is amended to read 
     as follows: ``Other members and part-time advisers shall 
     (except as otherwise specifically authorized by law) serve 
     without compensation for such service.''.
       (2) Sections 4355(h), 6968(h), and 9355(h) of such title 
     are amended by striking out ``is entitled to not more than $5 
     a day and''.
       (f) Annual Budget Information Concerning Recruiting 
     Costs.--(1) Section 227 of such title is repealed.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 9 of 
     such title is amended by striking out the item relating to 
     section 227.
       (g) Expired Authority Relating to Peacekeeping 
     Activities.--(1) Section 403 of such title is repealed.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I 
     of chapter 20 of such title is amended by striking out the 
     item relating to section 403.
       (h) Management Training Program in Japanese Language and 
     Culture.--(1) Section 2198 of such title is repealed.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 111 
     of such title is amended by striking out the item relating to 
     section 2198.
       (i) Procurement of Gasohol for Department of Defense Motor 
     Vehicles.--(1) Subsection (a) of section 2398 of such title 
     is repealed.
       (2) Such section is further amended--
       (A) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
     (a) and (b), respectively; and
       (B) in subsection (b), as so redesignated, by striking out 
     ``subsection (b)'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``subsection 
     (a)''.
       (j) Requirement of Notice of Certain Disposals and Gifts by 
     Secretary of Navy.--Section 7545 of such title is amended by 
     striking out subsection (c).
       (k) Annual Report on Biological Defense Research Program.--
     (1) Section 2370 of such title is repealed. [[Page H5843]] 
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 139 
     of such title is amended by striking out the item relating to 
     such section.
       (l) Reports and Notifications Relating to Chemical and 
     Biological Agents.--(1) Subsection (a) of section 409 of 
     Public Law 91-121 (50 U.S.C. 1511) is repealed.
       (2) Subsection (b) of such section (50 U.S.C. 1512) is 
     amended--
       (A) by inserting ``and'' at the end of paragraph (2);
       (B) by striking out ``; and'' at the end of paragraph (3) 
     and inserting in lieu thereof a period; and
       (C) by striking out paragraph (4).
       (3) Subsection (c) of such section (50 U.S.C. 1513) is 
     amended by striking out the second sentence of paragraph (1).
       (m) Provision Giving Permanent Status to Executive Order 
     Relating to Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program.--Section 1634 
     of the Department of Defense Authorization, 1985 (Public Law 
     98-525; 98 Stat. 2649; 42 U.S.C. 7158 note), is repealed.
       (n) Annual Report on Balanced Technology Initiative.--
     Subsection (e) of section 211 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (Public Law 
     101-189; 103 Stat. 1394) is repealed.
       (o) Obsolete Authority Regarding Anniston Army Depot, 
     Alabama.--Section 352 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1539) 
     is repealed.
       (p) Report on Environmental Restoration Costs for 
     Installations To Be Closed Under 1990 Base Closure Law.--
     Section 2827 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (Public Law 102-190; 10 U.S.C. 
     2687 note) is amended by striking out subsection (b).
       (q) Limitation on American Diplomatic Facilities in 
     Germany.--Section 1432 of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Public Law 103-160; 107 Stat. 1833) 
     is repealed.
       (r) Requirement Relating to Athletic Director of Naval 
     Academy.--Section 556(b) of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337; 
     108 Stat. 2774) (including the section of title 10, United 
     States Code, added by that section effective January 1, 1996, 
     and the table of sections item added by that section) is 
     repealed.
  TITLE XI--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION WITH STATES OF FORMER SOVIET 
                                 UNION
     SEC. 1101. SPECIFICATION OF COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION 
                   PROGRAMS.
       (a) In General.--For purposes of section 301 and other 
     provisions of this Act, Cooperative Threat Reduction programs 
     are the programs specified in subsection (b).
       (b) Specified Programs.--The programs referred to in 
     subsection (a) are the following:
       (1) Programs to facilitate the elimination, and the safe 
     and secure transportation and storage, of nuclear, chemical, 
     and other weapons and their delivery vehicles.
       (2) Programs to facilitate the safe and secure storage of 
     fissile materials derived from the elimination of nuclear 
     weapons.
       (3) Programs to prevent the proliferation of weapons, 
     weapons components, and weapons-related technology and 
     expertise.
       (4) Programs to expand military-to-military and defense 
     contacts.
     SEC. 1102. FISCAL YEAR 1996 AUTHORIZATION.
       Of the amount authorized in section 301 for Cooperative 
     Threat Reduction programs, not more than the following 
     amounts shall be available for the purposes specified:
       (1) $50,000,000 for elimination of Russian strategic 
     offensive weapons.
       (2) $20,000,000 for elimination of Ukraine strategic 
     nuclear weapons.
       (3) $15,000,000 for elimination of Kazakhstan strategic 
     nuclear weapons.
       (4) $5,000,000 for elimination of Belarus strategic nuclear 
     weapons.
       (5) $6,000,000 for design of a storage facility for Russian 
     fissile material.
       (6) $42,500,000 for weapons security in Russia.
       (7) $35,000,000 for nuclear infrastructure elimination in 
     Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan.
       (8) $10,000,000 for activities designated as Defense and 
     Military Contacts/General Support/Training in Russia, 
     Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan.
       (9) $16,500,000 for activities designated as Other 
     Assessments/Support.
     SEC. 1103. REPEAL OF DEMILITARIZATION ENTERPRISE FUND 
                   AUTHORITY.
       Section 1204 of the Cooperative Threat Reduction Act of 
     1993 (title XII of Public Law 103-160; 22 U.S.C. 5953) is 
     repealed.
     SEC. 1104. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR PEACEKEEPING 
                   EXERCISES AND RELATED ACTIVITIES WITH RUSSIA.
       None of the funds appropriated pursuant to the 
     authorization in section 301 for Cooperative Threat Reduction 
     programs may be obligated or expended for the purpose of 
     conducting with Russia any peacekeeping exercise or other 
     peacekeeping-related activity.
     SEC. 1105. REVISION TO AUTHORITY FOR ASSISTANCE FOR WEAPONS 
                   DESTRUCTION.
       Section 211(b) of Public Law 102-228 (105 Stat. 1694) is 
     amended by striking out ``committed to'' in the matter 
     preceding paragraph (1).
     SEC. 1106. PRIOR NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF OBLIGATION OF FUNDS.
       (a) Annual Requirement.--(1) Not less than 15 days before 
     any obligation of any funds appropriated for any fiscal year 
     for a program specified under section 1101 as a Cooperative 
     Threat Reduction program, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional committees specified in paragraph 
     (2) a report on that proposed obligation for that program for 
     that fiscal year.
       (2) The congressional committees referred to in paragraph 
     (1) are the following:
       (A) The Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate.
       (B) The Committee on National Security, the Committee on 
     International Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations 
     of the <strong>House</strong> of Representatives.
       (b) Matters To Be Specified in Reports.--Each such report 
     shall specify--
       (1) the activities and forms of assistance for which the 
     Secretary of Defense plans to obligate funds;
       (2) the amount of the proposed obligation; and
       (3) the projected involvement (if any) of any department or 
     agency of the United States (in addition to the Department of 
     Defense) and of the private sector of the United States in 
     the activities and forms of assistance for which the 
     Secretary of Defense plans to obligate such funds.
     SEC. 1107. REPORT ON ACCOUNTING FOR UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE.
       (a) Report.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
     Congress an annual report on the efforts made by the United 
     States (including efforts through the use of audits, 
     examinations, and on-site inspections) to ensure that 
     assistance provided under Cooperative Threat Reduction 
     programs is fully accounted for and that such assistance is 
     being used for its intended purposes.
       (2) A report shall be submitted under this section not 
     later than January 31 of each year until the Cooperative 
     Threat Reduction programs are completed.
       (b) Information To Be Included.--Each report under this 
     section shall include the following:
       (1) A list of cooperative threat reduction assistance that 
     has been provided before the date of the report.
       (2) A description of the current location of the assistance 
     provided and the current condition of such assistance.
       (3) A determination of whether the assistance has been used 
     for its intended purpose.
       (4) A description of the activities planned to be carried 
     out during the next fiscal year to ensure that cooperative 
     threat reduction assistance provided during that fiscal year 
     is fully accounted for and is used for its intended purpose.
       (c) Comptroller General Assessment.--Not later than 30 days 
     after the date on which a report of the Secretary under 
     subsection (a) is submitted to Congress, the Comptroller 
     General of the United States shall submit to Congress a 
     report giving the Comptroller General's assessment of the 
     report and making any recommendations that the Comptroller 
     General considers appropriate.
              TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO OTHER NATIONS
                  Subtitle A--Peacekeeping Provisions
     SEC. 1201. LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURE OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
                   FUNDS FOR UNITED STATES FORCES PLACED UNDER 
                   UNITED NATIONS COMMAND OR CONTROL.
       (a) In General.--(1) Chapter 20 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 404 the following 
     new section:
     ``Sec. 405. Placement of United States forces under United 
       Nations command or control: limitation
       ``(a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsections (b) 
     and (c), funds appropriated or otherwise made available for 
     the Department of Defense may not be obligated or expended 
     for activities of any element of the Armed Forces that after 
     the date of the enactment of this section is placed under 
     United Nations command or control, as defined in subsection 
     (f).
       ``(b) Exception for Presidential Certification.--(1) 
     Subsection (a) shall not apply in the case of a proposed 
     placement of an element of the Armed Forces under United 
     Nations command or control if the President, not less than 15 
     days before the date on which such United Nations command or 
     control is to become effective (or as provided in paragraph 
     (2)), meets the requirements of subsection (d).
       ``(2) If the President certifies to Congress that an 
     emergency exists that precludes the President from meeting 
     the requirements of subsection (d) 15 days before placing an 
     element of the Armed Forces under United Nations command or 
     control, the President may place such forces under such 
     command or control and meet the requirements of subsection 
     (d) in a timely manner, but in no event later than 48 hours 
     after such command or control becomes effective.
       ``(c) Additional Exceptions.--
       ``(1) Exception for authorization by law.--Subsection (a) 
     shall not apply in the case of a proposed placement of any 
     element of the Armed Forces under United Nations command or 
     control if the Congress specifically authorizes by law that 
     particular placement of United States forces under United 
     Nations command or control.
       ``(2) Exception for nato operations.--Subsection (a) shall 
     not apply in the case of a proposed placement of any element 
     of the armed forces in an operation conducted by the North 
     Atlantic Treaty Organization.
       ``(d) Presidential Certifications.--The requirements 
     referred to in subsection (b)(1) are that the President 
     submit to Congress the following:
       ``(1) Certification by the President that--
       ``(A) such a United Nations command or control arrangement 
     is necessary to protect national security interests of the 
     United States;
       ``(B) the commander of any unit of the Armed Forces 
     proposed for placement under United Nations command or 
     control will at all times retain the right--
       ``(i) to report independently to superior United States 
     military authorities; and
       ``(ii) to decline to comply with orders judged by the 
     commander to be illegal, militarily imprudent, or beyond the 
     mandate of the mission to [[Page H5844]] which the United 
     States agreed with the United Nations, until such time as 
     that commander receives direction from superior United States 
     military authorities with respect to the orders that the 
     commander has declined to comply with;
       ``(C) any element of the Armed Forces proposed for 
     placement under United Nations command or control will at all 
     times remain under United States administrative command for 
     such purposes as discipline and evaluation; and
       ``(D) the United States will retain the authority to 
     withdraw any element of the Armed Forces from the proposed 
     operation at any time and to take any action it considers 
     necessary to protect those forces if they are engaged.
       ``(2) A report setting forth the following:
       ``(A) A description of the national security interests that 
     require the placement of United States forces under United 
     Nations command or control.
       ``(B) The mission of the United States forces involved.
       ``(C) The expected size and composition of the United 
     States forces involved.
       ``(D) The incremental cost to the United States of 
     participation in the United Nations operation by the United 
     States forces which are proposed to be placed under United 
     Nations command or control.
       ``(E) The precise command and control relationship between 
     the United States forces involved and the United Nations 
     command structure.
       ``(F) The precise command and control relationship between 
     the United States forces involved and the commander of the 
     United States unified command for the region in which those 
     United States forces are to operate.
       ``(G) The extent to which the United States forces involved 
     will rely on non-United States forces for security and self-
     defense and an assessment on the ability of those non-United 
     States forces to provide adequate security to the United 
     States forces involved.
       ``(H) The timetable for complete withdrawal of the United 
     States forces involved.
       ``(e) Classification of Report.--A report under subsection 
     (d) shall be submitted in unclassified form and, if 
     necessary, in classified form.
       ``(f) United Nations Command or Control.--For purposes of 
     this section, an element of the Armed Forces shall be 
     considered to be placed under United Nations command or 
     control if--
       ``(1) that element is under the command or operational 
     control of an individual acting on behalf of the United 
     Nations for the purpose of international peacekeeping, 
     peacemaking, peace-enforcing, or similar activity that is 
     authorized by the Security Council under chapter VI or VII of 
     the Charter of the United Nations; and
       ``(2) the senior military commander of the United Nations 
     force or operation--
       ``(A) is a foreign national or is a citizen of the United 
     States who is not a United States military officer serving on 
     active duty; or
       ``(B) is a United States military officer serving on active 
     duty but--
       ``(i) that element of the armed forces is under the command 
     or operational control of a subordinate commander who is a 
     foreign national or a citizen of the United States who is not 
     a United States military officer serving on active duty; and
       ``(ii) that senior military commander does not have the 
     authority--
       ``(I) to dismiss any subordinate officer in the chain of 
     command who is exercising command or operational control over 
     United States forces and who is a foreign national or a 
     citizen of the United States who is not a United States 
     military officer serving on active duty;
       ``(II) to establish rules of engagement for United States 
     forces involved; and
       ``(III) to establish criteria governing the operational 
     employment of United States forces involved.
       ``(g) Interpretation.--Nothing in this section may be 
     construed--
       ``(1) as authority for the President to use any element of 
     the armed forces in any operation;
       ``(2) as authority for the President to place any element 
     of the armed forces under the command or operational control 
     of a foreign national; or
       ``(3) as an unconstitutional infringement on the authority 
     of the President as commander-in-chief.''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I 
     of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new item:
``405. Placement of United States forces under United Nations command 
              or control: limitation.''.
       (b) Report Relating to Constitutionality.--No certification 
     may be submitted by the President under section 405(d)(1) of 
     title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), 
     until the President has submitted to the Congress (after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act) a memorandum of legal 
     points and authorities explaining why the placement of 
     elements of United States Armed Forces under the command or 
     operational control of a foreign national acting on behalf of 
     the United Nations does not violate the Constitution.
       (c) Exception for Ongoing Operations in Macedonia and 
     Croatia.--Section 405 of title 10, United States Code, as 
     added by subsection (a), does not apply in the case of 
     activities of the Armed Forces as part of the United Nations 
     force designated as the United Nations Protection Force 
     (UNPROFOR) that are carried out--
       (1) in Macedonia pursuant to United Nations Security 
     Council Resolution 795, adopted December 11, 1992, and 
     subsequent reauthorization Resolutions; or
       (2) in Croatia pursuant to United Nations Security Council 
     Resolution 743, adopted February 21, 1992, and subsequent 
     reauthorization Resolutions.
     SEC. 1202. LIMITATION ON USE OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FUNDS 
                   FOR UNITED STATES SHARE OF COSTS OF UNITED 
                   NATIONS PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES.
       (a) In General.--(1) Chapter 20 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 405, as added by 
     section 1201, the following new section:
     ``Sec. 406. Use of Department of Defense funds for United 
       States share of costs of United Nations peacekeeping 
       activities: limitation
       ``(a) Prohibition on Use of Funds.--Funds available to the 
     Department of Defense may not be used to make a financial 
     contribution (directly or through another department or 
     agency of the United States) to the United Nations--
       ``(1) for the costs of a United Nations peacekeeping 
     activity; or
       ``(2) for any United States arrearage to the United 
     Nations.
       ``(b) Application of Prohibition.--The prohibition in 
     subsection (a) applies to voluntary contributions, as well as 
     to contributions pursuant to assessment by the United Nations 
     for the United States share of the costs of a peacekeeping 
     activity.''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter 
     is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
     405, as added by section 1201, the following new item:
``406. Use of Department of Defense funds for United States share of 
              costs of United Nations peacekeeping activities: 
              limitation.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--Section 406 of title 10, United States 
     Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on 
     October 1, 1995.
              Subtitle B--Humanitarian Assistance Programs
     SEC. 1211. OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER, AND CIVIC AID 
                   PROGRAMS.
       For purposes of section 301 and other provisions of this 
     Act, programs of the Department of Defense designated as 
     Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid (OHDACA) 
     programs are the programs provided by sections 401, 402, 404, 
     2547, and 2551 of title 10, United States Code.
     SEC. 1212. HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE.
       Section 2551 of title 10, United States Code is amended--
       (1) by striking out subsections (b) and (c);
       (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (b);
       (3) by striking out subsection (e) and inserting in lieu 
     thereof the following:
       ``(c) Status Reports.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
     submit to the congressional committees specified in 
     subsection (f) an annual report on the provision of 
     humanitarian assistance pursuant to this section for the 
     prior fiscal year. The report shall be submitted each year at 
     the time of the budget submission by the President for the 
     next fiscal year.
       ``(2) Each report required by paragraph (1) shall cover all 
     provisions of law that authorize appropriations for 
     humanitarian assistance to be available from the Department 
     of Defense for the purposes of this section.
       ``(3) Each report under this subsection shall set forth the 
     following information regarding activities during the 
     previous fiscal year:
       ``(A) The total amount of funds obligated for humanitarian 
     relief under this section.
       ``(B) The number of scheduled and completed transportation 
     missions for purposes of providing humanitarian assistance 
     under this section.
       ``(C) A description of any transfer of excess nonlethal 
     supplies of the Department of Defense made available for 
     humanitarian relief purposes under section 2547 of this 
     title. The description shall include the date of the 
     transfer, the entity to whom the transfer is made, and the 
     quantity of items transferred.'';
       (4) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (d) and 
     in that subsection striking out ``the Committees on'' and all 
     that follows through ``<strong>House</strong> of Representatives of the'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``the congressional committees 
     specified in subsection (f) and the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and <strong>House</strong> of Representatives of 
     the'';
       (5) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (e); and
       (6) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(f) Congressional Committees.--The congressional 
     committees referred to in subsections (c)(1) and (d) are the 
     following:
       ``(1) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations of the Senate.
       ``(2) The Committee on National Security and the Committee 
     on International Relations of the <strong>House</strong> of 
     Representatives.''.
     SEC. 1213. LANDMINE CLEARANCE PROGRAM.
       (a) Inclusion in General Humanitarian Assistance Program.--
     Subsection (e) of section 401 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended--
       (1) by striking out ``means--'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``means:'';
       (2) by revising the first word in each of paragraphs (1) 
     through (4) so that the first letter of such word is upper 
     case;
       (3) by striking out the semicolon at the end of paragraphs 
     (1) and (2) and inserting in lieu thereof a period;
       (4) by striking out ``; and'' at the end of paragraph (3) 
     and inserting in lieu thereof a period; and
       (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(5) Detection and clearance of landmines, including 
     activities relating to the furnishing of education, training, 
     and technical assistance with respect to the detection and 
     clearance of landmines.''.
       (b) Limitation on Landmine Assistance by Members of Armed 
     Forces.--Subsection (a) of such section is amended by adding 
     at the end the following new paragraph: [[Page H5845]] 
       ``(4) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that no member 
     of the armed forces, while providing assistance under this 
     section that is described in subsection (e)(5)--
       ``(A) engages in the physical detection, lifting, or 
     destroying of landmines (unless the member does so for the 
     concurrent purpose of supporting a United States military 
     operation); or
       ``(B) provides such assistance as part of a military 
     operation that does not involve the armed forces.''.
       (c) Repeal.--Section 1413 of the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337; 
     108 Stat. 2913; 10 U.S.C. 401 note) is repealed.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters
     SEC. 1221. REVISION OF DEFINITION OF LANDMINE FOR PURPOSES OF 
                   LANDMINE EXPORT MORATORIUM.
       Section 1423(d)(3) of the National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Public Law 103-160; 107 Stat. 1831) 
     is amended by striking out ``by remote control or'' .
      SEC. 1222. EXTENSION AND AMENDMENT OF COUNTERPROLIFERATION 
                   AUTHORITIES.
       (a) One-Year Extension of Program.--Section 1505 of the 
     Weapons of Mass Destruction Control Act of 1992 (title XV of 
     Public Law 102-484; 22 U.S.C. 5859a) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking out ``during fiscal 
     years 1994 and 1995'';
       (2) in subsection (e)(1), by striking out ``fiscal years 
     1994 and 1995'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``a fiscal year 
     during which the authority of the Secretary of Defense to 
     provide assistance under this section is in effect''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(f) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the 
     Secretary of Defense to provide assistance under this section 
     terminates at the close of fiscal year 1996.''.
       (b) Program Authorities.--(1) Subsections (b)(2) and (d)(3) 
     of such section are amended by striking out ``the On-Site 
     Inspection Agency'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``the 
     Department of Defense''.
       (2) Subsection (c)(3) of such section is amended by 
     striking out ``will be counted'' and all that follows and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``will be counted as discretionary 
     spending in the national defense budget function (function 
     050).''.
       (c) Amount of Assistance.--Subsection (d) of such section 
     is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) by striking out ``for fiscal year 1994'' the first 
     place it appears and all that follows through the period at 
     the end of the second sentence and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``for any fiscal year shall be derived from amounts made 
     available to the Department of Defense for that fiscal 
     year.''; and
       (B) by striking out ``referred to in this paragraph''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)--
       (A) by striking out ``may not exceed'' and all that follows 
     through ``1995''; and
       (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
     following: ``, may not exceed $25,000,000 for fiscal year 
     1994, $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1995, or $15,000,000 for 
     fiscal year 1996''.
     SEC. 1223. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR ACTIVITIES 
                   ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED STATES-PEOPLE'S 
                   REPUBLIC OF CHINA JOINT DEFENSE CONVERSION 
                   COMMISSION.
       Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for fiscal 
     year 1996 may not be obligated or expended for any activity 
     associated with the United States-People's Republic of China 
     Joint Defense Conversion Commission.
     SEC. 1224. DEFENSE EXPORT LOAN GUARANTEES.
       (a) Establishment of Program.--(1) Chapter 148 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new subchapter:
            ``SUBCHAPTER VI--DEFENSE EXPORT LOAN GUARANTEES
``Sec.
``2540. Establishment of loan guarantee program.
``2540a. Transferability.
``2540b. Limitations.
``2540c. Fees charged and collected.
``2540d. Definitions.
     ``Sec. 2540. Establishment of loan guarantee program
       ``(a) Establishment.--In order to meet the national 
     security objectives in section 2501(a) of this title, the 
     Secretary of Defense shall establish a program under which 
     the Secretary may issue guarantees assuring a lender against 
     losses of principal or interest, or both principal and 
     interest, arising out of the financing of the sale or long-
     term lease of defense articles, defense services, or design 
     and construction services to a country referred to in 
     subsection (b).
       ``(b) Covered Countries.--The authority under subsection 
     (a) applies with respect to the following countries:
       ``(1) A member nation of the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization (NATO).
       ``(2) A country designated as of March 31, 1995, as a major 
     non-NATO ally pursuant to section 2350a(i)(3) of this title.
       ``(3) A country that was a member nation of the Asia 
     Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) as of March 31, 1995.
       ``(c) Authority Subject to Provisions of Appropriation 
     Acts.--The Secretary may guarantee a loan under this 
     subchapter only to such extent or in such amounts as may be 
     provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
     ``Sec. 2540a. Transferability
       ``A guarantee issued under this subchapter shall be fully 
     and freely transferable.
     ``Sec. 2540b. Limitations
       ``(a) Terms and Conditions of Loan Guarantees.--In issuing 
     a guarantee under this subchapter for a medium-term or long-
     term loan, the Secretary may not offer terms and conditions 
     more beneficial than those that would be provided to the 
     recipient by the Export-Import Bank of the United States 
     under similar circumstances in conjunction with the provision 
     of guarantees for nondefense articles and services.
       ``(b) Losses Arising From Fraud or Misrepresentation.--No 
     payment may be made under a guarantee issued under this 
     subchapter for a loss arising out of fraud or 
     misrepresentation for which the party seeking payment is 
     responsible.
       ``(c) No Right of Acceleration.--The Secretary of Defense 
     may not accelerate any guaranteed loan or increment, and may 
     not pay any amount, in respect of a guarantee issued under 
     this subchapter, other than in accordance with the original 
     payment terms of the loan.
     ``Sec. 2540c. Fees charged and collected
       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall charge a 
     fee (known as `exposure fee') for each guarantee issued under 
     this subchapter.
       ``(b) Amount.--To the extent that the cost of the loan 
     guarantees under this subchapter is not otherwise provided 
     for in appropriations Acts, the fee imposed under this 
     section with respect to a loan guarantee shall be fixed in an 
     amount sufficient to meet potential liabilities of the United 
     States under the loan guarantee.
       ``(c) Payment Terms.--The fee for each guarantee shall 
     become due as the guarantee is issued. In the case of a 
     guarantee for a loan which is disbursed incrementally, and 
     for which the guarantee is correspondingly issued 
     incrementally as portions of the loan are disbursed, the fee 
     shall be paid incrementally in proportion to the amount of 
     the guarantee that is issued.
     ``Sec. 2540d. Definitions
       ``In this subchapter:
       ``(1) The terms `defense article', `defense services', and 
     `design and construction services' have the meanings given 
     those terms in section 47 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
     U.S.C. 2794).
       ``(2) The term `cost', with respect to a loan guarantee, 
     has the meaning given that term in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (2 
     U.S.C. 661a).''.
       (2) The table of subchapters at the beginning of such 
     chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     item:
``VI. Defense Export Loan Guarantees........................2540''.....
       (b) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress 
     a report on the loan guarantee program established pursuant 
     to section 2540 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
     subsection (a). The report shall include--
       (1) an analysis of the costs and benefits of the loan 
     guarantee program; and
       (2) any recommendations for modification of the program 
     that the President considers appropriate, including--
       (A) any recommended addition to the list of countries for 
     which a guarantee may be issued under the program; and
       (B) any proposed legislation necessary to authorize a 
     recommended modification.
     SEC. 1225. ACCOUNTING FOR BURDENSHARING CONTRIBUTIONS.
       (a) Authority To Manage Contributions in Local Currency, 
     Etc.--Subsection (b) of section 2350j of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(b) Accounting.--Contributions accepted under subsection 
     (a) which are not related to security assistance may be 
     accepted, managed, and expended in dollars or in the currency 
     of the host nation (or, in the case of a contribution from a 
     regional organization, in the currency in which the 
     contribution was provided). Any such contribution shall be 
     placed in an account established for such purpose and shall 
     remain available until expended for the purposes specified in 
     subsection (c). The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
     separate account for such purpose for each country or 
     regional organization from which such contributions are 
     accepted under subsection (a).''.
       (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (d) of such section 
     is amended by striking out ``credited under subsection (b) to 
     an appropriation account of the Department of Defense'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``placed in an account established 
     under subsection (b)''.
       (c) Technical Amendment.--Such section is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (e)(1), by striking out ``a report to the 
     congressional defense committees'' and inserting in lieu 
     thereof ``to the congressional committees specified in 
     subsection (g) a report''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(g) Congressional Committees.--The congressional 
     committees referred to in subsection (e)(1) are--
       ``(1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the Senate; and
       ``(2) the Committee on National Security and the Committee 
     on Appropriations of the <strong>House</strong> of Representatives.''.
     SEC. 1226. AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT CONTRIBUTIONS FOR EXPENSES OF 
                   RELOCATION WITHIN HOST NATION OF UNITED STATES 
                   ARMED FORCES OVERSEAS.
       (a) In General.--(1) Subchapter II of chapter 138 of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new section:
     ``Sec. 2350k. Relocation within host nation of elements of 
       armed forces overseas
       ``(a) Authority to Accept Contributions.--The Secretary of 
     Defense may accept contributions from any nation because of 
     or in support of the relocation of elements of the armed 
     forces [[Page H5846]] from or to any location within that 
     nation. Such contributions may be accepted in dollars or in 
     the currency of the host nation. Any such contribution shall 
     be placed in an account established for such purpose and 
     shall remain available until expended for the purposes 
     specified in subsection (b). The Secretary shall establish a 
     separate account for such purpose for each country from which 
     such contributions are accepted.
       ``(b) Use of Contributions.--The Secretary may use a 
     contribution accepted under subsection (a) only for payment 
     of costs incurred in connection with the relocation 
     concerning which the contribution was made. Those costs 
     include the following:
       ``(1) Design and construction services, including 
     development and review of statements of work, master plans 
     and designs, acquisition of construction, and supervision and 
     administration of contracts relating thereto.
       ``(2) Transportation and movement services, including 
     packing, unpacking, storage, and transportation.
       ``(3) Communications services, including installation and 
     deinstallation of communications equipment, transmission of 
     messages and data, and rental of transmission capability.
       ``(4) Supply and administration, including acquisition of 
     expendable office supplies, rental of office space, budgeting 
     and accounting services, auditing services, secretarial 
     services, and translation services.
       ``(5) Personnel costs, including salary, allowances and 
     overhead of employees whether full-time or part-time, 
     temporary or permanent (except for military personnel), and 
     travel and temporary duty costs.
       ``(6) All other clearly identifiable expenses directly 
     related to relocation.
       ``(c) Method of Contribution.--Contributions may be 
     accepted in any of the following forms:
       ``(1) Irrevocable letter of credit issued by a financial 
     institution acceptable to the Treasurer of the United States.
       ``(2) Drawing rights on a commercial bank account 
     established and funded by the host nation, which account is 
     blocked such that funds deposited cannot be withdrawn except 
     by or with the approval of the United States.
       ``(3) Cash, which shall be deposited in a separate trust 
     fund in the United States Treasury pending expenditure and 
     which shall accrue interest in accordance with section 9702 
     of title 31.
       ``(d) Annual Report to Congress.--Not later than 30 days 
     after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit 
     to Congress a report specifying--
       ``(1) the amount of the contributions accepted by the 
     Secretary during the preceding fiscal year under subsection 
     (a) and the purposes for which the contributions were made; 
     and
       ``(2) the amount of the contributions expended by the 
     Secretary during the preceding fiscal year and the purposes 
     for which the contributions were expended.''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter II 
     of chapter 138 of such title is amended by adding at the end 
     the following new item:
``2350k. Relocation within host nation of elements of armed forces 
              overseas.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--Section 2350k of title 10, United 
     States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on 
     October 1, 1995, and shall apply to contributions for 
     relocation of elements of the Armed Forces in or to any 
     nation received on or after such date.
     SEC. 1227. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ABM TREATY VIOLATIONS.
       (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
       (1) The 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty prohibits either 
     party from deploying ballistic missile early warning radars 
     except at locations along the periphery of its national 
     territory and oriented outward.
       (2) The 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty prohibits either 
     party from deploying an ABM system to defend its national 
     territory and from providing a base for any such nationwide 
     defense.
       (3) Large phased-array radars were recognized during 
     negotiation of the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty as the 
     critical long lead-time element of a nationwide defense 
     against ballistic missiles.
       (4) In 1983 the United States discovered the construction, 
     in the interior of the Soviet Union near the town of 
     Krasnoyarsk, of a large phased-array radar that was judged to 
     be for ballistic missile early warning and tracking.
       (5) The Krasnoyarsk radar was certified by the Reagan 
     Administration and previous sessions of Congress as an 
     unequivocal violation by the Soviet Union of the Anti-
     Ballistic Missile Treaty.
       (6) Retired Soviet General Y.V. Votintsev, Director of the 
     Soviet National Air Defense Forces from 1967 to 1985, has 
     publicly stated that he was directed by the Chief of the 
     Soviet General staff to locate the large phased-array radar 
     at Krasnoyarsk despite the recognition that its location 
     would be a clear violation of the ABM Treaty.
       (7) General Votintsev has publicly stated that Marshal D.F. 
     Ustinov, Soviet Minister of Defense, threatened to relieve 
     from duty any Soviet officer who continued to object to the 
     construction of a large-phased array radar at Krasnoyarsk.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the government of the Soviet Union intentionally 
     violated its legal obligations under the 1972 Anti-Ballistic 
     Missile Treaty in order to advance its national security 
     interests; and
       (2) the United States should remain vigilant in ensuring 
     compliance by Russia with its arms control obligations and 
     should, when pursuing future arms control agreements with 
     Russia, bear in mind violations of arms control obligations 
     by the Soviet Union.
            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS
     SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.
       This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996''.
                            TITLE XXI--ARMY
     SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.
       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2104(a)(1), the Secretary of the Army may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations and locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                                         Army: Inside the United States                                         
                   State                                  Installation or location                    Amount    
Alabama...................................  Fort Rucker.........................................      $5,900,000
                                            Redstone Arsenal....................................      $5,000,000
Arizona...................................  Fort Huachuca.......................................     $18,550,000
California................................  Fort Irwin..........................................     $25,500,000
                                            Presidio of San Francisco...........................      $3,000,000
Colorado..................................  Fort Carson.........................................     $30,850,000
District of Columbia......................  Fort McNair.........................................     $13,500,000
Georgia...................................  Fort Benning........................................     $37,900,000
                                            Fort Gordon.........................................      $5,750,000
                                            Fort Stewart........................................      $8,400,000
Hawaii....................................  Schofield Barracks..................................     $15,000,000
Kentucky..................................  Fort Knox...........................................      $5,600,000
Missouri..................................  Fort Leonard Wood...................................      $3,900,000
New Jersey................................  Picatinny Arsenal...................................      $5,500,000
New Mexico................................  White Sands Missile Range...........................      $2,050,000
New York..................................  Fort Drum...........................................     $11,450,000
                                            United States Military Academy......................      $8,300,000
                                            Watervliet Arsenal..................................        $680,000
North Carolina............................  Fort Bragg..........................................     $29,700,000
Oklahoma..................................  Fort Sill...........................................     $14,300,000
South Carolina............................  Naval Weapons Station, Charleston...................     $25,700,000
                                            Fort Jackson........................................     $32,000,000
Texas.....................................  Fort Hood...........................................     $32,500,000
                                            Fort Bliss..........................................     $56,900,000
                                            Fort Sam Houston....................................      $7,000,000
Virginia..................................  Fort Eustis.........................................     $16,400,000
                                            Fort Myer...........................................     $17,000,000
Washington................................  Fort Lewis..........................................     $32,100,000
CONUS Classified..........................  Classified Location.................................      $1,900,000
                                              Total:............................................    $472,330,000



       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2104(a)(2), the Secretary of the Army may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set 
     forth in the following table:
                                         Army: Outside the United States                                        
                  Country                                 Installation or location                    Amount    
Korea.....................................  Camp Casey..........................................      $4,150,000
                                            Camp Hovey..........................................     $13,500,000
                                            Camp Pelham.........................................      $5,600,000
                                            Camp Stanley........................................      $6,800,000
                                            Yongsan.............................................      $1,450,000
Overseas Classified.......................  Classified Location.................................     $48,000,000
                                              Total:............................................     $79,500,000


   SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.
       (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts 
     appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
     in section 2104(a)(5)(A), the Secretary of the Army may 
     construct or acquire family housing units (including land 
     acquisition) at the installations, for the purposes, and in 
     the amounts set forth in the following table:
                                              Army: Family Housing                                              
         State                      Installation                            Purpose                   Amount    
Alabama...............  Redstone Arsenal....................  118 units.........................     $12,000,000
Kentucky..............  Fort Knox...........................  262 units.........................     $19,000,000
New York..............  United States Military Academy, West                                                    
                         Point..............................  119 units.........................     $16,500,000
Virginia..............  Fort Lee............................  135 units.........................     $19,500,000
Washington............  Fort Lewis..........................  84 units..........................     $10,800,000
                                                                Total:..........................     $77,800,000


       (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2104(a)(5)(A), the Secretary of the Army may carry out 
     architectural and engineering services and construction 
     design activities with respect to the construction or 
     improvement of family housing units in an amount not to 
     exceed $2,000,000.
     SEC. 2103. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
       Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, 
     and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization 
     of appropriations in section 2104(a)(5)(A), the Secretary of 
     the Army may improve existing military family housing in an 
     amount not to exceed $46,600,000.
     SEC. 2104. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.
       (a) In General.--Funds are hereby authorized to be 
     appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 
     1995, for military construction, land acquisition, and 
     military family housing functions of the Department of the 
     Army in the total amount of $2,167,190,000 as follows:
       (1) For military construction projects inside the United 
     States authorized by section 2101(a), $472,330,000.
       (2) For military construction projects outside the United 
     States authorized by section 2101(b), $79,500,000.
       (3) For unspecified minor military construction projects 
     authorized by section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, 
     $9,000,000.
       (4) For architectural and engineering services and 
     construction design under section 2807 of title 10, United 
     States Code, $70,778,000.
       (5) For military family housing functions:
       (A) For construction and acquisition, planning and design, 
     and improvements of military family housing and facilities, 
     $126,400,000.
       (B) For support of military family housing (including the 
     functions described in section 2833 of title 10, United 
     States Code), $1,333,596,000.
       (6) For the Homeowners Assistance Program, as authorized by 
     section 2832 of title 10, United States Code, $75,586,000, to 
     remain available until expended.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2101 of this Act may not exceed the 
     total amount authorized to be appropriated under paragraphs 
     (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
                            TITLE XXII--NAVY
     SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.
       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2204(a)(1), the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations and locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                     Navy: Inside the United States                     
      State               Installation or location            Amount    
California.......  Marine Corps Air-Ground Combat                       
                    Center, Twentynine Palms............      $2,490,000
                   Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton....     $27,584,000
                   Nav Com Control &amp; Ocean Sur Cen RDT&amp;E                
                    Div, San Diego......................      $3,170,000
                   Naval Air Station, Lemoore...........      $7,600,000
                   Naval Air Station, North Island......     $99,150,000
                   Naval Air Warfare Center Weapons                     
                    Division, China Lake................      $3,700,000
                   Naval Air Warfare Center Weapons                     
                    Division, Point Mugu................      $1,300,000
                   Naval Construction Batallion Center,                 
                    Port Hueneme........................     $16,700,000
                   Naval Station, San Diego.............     $19,960,000
Florida..........  Naval School Explosive Ordinance                     
                    Disposal, Eglin Air Force Base......     $16,150,000
                   Naval Technical Training Center,                     
                    Corry Station, Pensacola............      $2,565,000
Georgia..........  Strategic Weapons Facility, Atlantic,                
                    Kings Bay...........................      $2,450,000
                   Marine Corps Logistics Base, Albany..      $1,300,000
Hawaii...........  Intelligence Center Pacific, Pearl                   
                    Harbor..............................      $2,200,000
                   Naval Com &amp; Telecoms Area MASTSTA                    
                    EASTPAC, Honolulu...................      $1,980,000
                   Naval Submarine Base, Pearl Harbor...     $22,500,000
Illinois.........  Naval Training Center, Great Lakes...     $12,440,000
Indiana..........  Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center...      $3,300,000
Maryland.........  Naval Academy, Annapolis.............      $3,600,000
                   Various Maryland Locations...........      $1,200,000
New Jersey.......  Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft                    
                    Division, Lakehurst.................      $1,700,000
North Carolina...  Marine Corps Air Station, Cherry                     
                    Point...............................     $11,430,000
                   Marine Corps Air Station, New River..     $14,650,000
                   Marine Corps Base, Camp LeJeune......     $59,300,000
Pennsylvania.....  Philadelphia Naval Shipyard..........      $6,000,000
South Carolina...  Marine Corps Air Station, Beaufort...     $15,000,000
Texas............  Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi....      $4,400,000
                   Naval Air Station, Kingsville........      $2,710,000
                   Naval Station, Ingleside.............      $2,640,000
Virginia.........  Fleet and Industrial Supply Center,                  
                    Williamsburg........................      $8,390,000
                   Marine Corps Combat Development                      
                    Command, Quantico...................      $3,500,000
                   Naval Hospital, Portsmouth...........      $9,500,000
                   Naval Station, Norfolk...............     $28,580,000
                   Naval Weapons Station, Yorktown......      $1,300,000
Washington.......  Naval Undersea Warfare Center                        
                    Division, Keyport...................      $5,300,000
                   Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, Bremerton     $19,870,000
                     Total:.............................    $445,609,000
       (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2204(a)(2), the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations and locations outside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                                         Navy: Outside the United States                                        
          Country                                  Installation or location                           Amount    
Guam.......................  Naval Com &amp; Telecoms Area MASTSTA WESTPAC..........................      $2,250,000
                             Navy Public Works Center, Guam.....................................     $16,180,000
Italy......................  Naval Air Station, Sigonella.......................................     $12,170,000
                             Naval Support Activity, Naples.....................................     $24,950,000
Puerto Rico................  Naval Security Group Activity, Sabana Seca.........................      $2,200,000
                             Naval Station, Roosevelt Roads.....................................     $11,500,000
                               Total............................................................     $69,250,000


     SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.
       (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts 
     appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
     in section 2204(a)(5)(A), the Secretary of the Navy may 
     construct or acquire family housing units (including land 
     acquisition) at the installations, for the purposes, and in 
     the amounts set forth in the following table:
                                              Navy: Family Housing                                              
         State                      Installation                            Purpose                   Amount    
California............  Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton...  205 units.........................     $30,080,000
                        Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton...  Community Center..................      $1,438,000
                        Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton...  Housing Office....................        $707,000
                        Naval Air Station, Lemoore..........  240 units.........................     $34,900,000
                        Pacific Missile Test Center, Point                                                      
                         Mugu...............................  Housing Office....................      $1,020,000
                        Public Works Center, San Diego......  346 units.........................     $49,310,000
Hawaii................  Naval Complex, Oahu.................  252 units.........................     $48,400,000
Maryland..............  Naval Air Test Center, Patuxent                                                         
                         River..............................  Warehouse.........................        $890,000
                        US Naval Academy, Annapolis.........  Housing Office....................        $800,000
North Carolina........  Marine Corps Air Station, Cherry                                                        
                         Point..............................  Community Center..................      $1,003,000
Pennsylvania..........  Navy Ships Parts Control Center,                                                        
                         Mechanicsburg......................  Housing Office....................        $300,000
Puerto Rico...........  Naval Station, Roosevelt Roads......  Housing Office....................        $710,000
Virginia..............  Naval Surface Warfare Center,                                                           
                         Dahlgren...........................  Housing Office....................        $520,000
                        Public Works Center, Norfolk........  320 units.........................     $42,500,000
                        Public Works Center, Norfolk........  Housing Office....................      $1,390,000
                                                                Total:..........................    $230,752,000


       (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2204(a)(5)(A), the Secretary of the Navy may carry out 
     architectural and engineering services and construction 
     design activities with respect to the construction or 
     improvement of military family housing units in an amount not 
     to exceed $24,390,000.
     SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
       Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, 
     and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization 
     of appropriations in section 2204(a)(5)(A), the Secretary of 
     the Navy may improve existing military family housing units 
     in an amount not to exceed $292,931,000.
     SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.
       (a) In General.--Funds are hereby authorized to be 
     appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 
     1994, for military construction, land acquisition, and 
     military family housing functions of the Department of the 
     Navy in the total amount of $2,164,861,000 as follows:
       (1) For military construction projects inside the United 
     States authorized by section 2201(a), $445,609,000.
       (2) For military construction projects outside the United 
     States authorized by section 2201(b), $69,250,000.
       (3) For unspecified minor construction projects authorized 
     by section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, $7,200,000.
       (4) For architectural and engineering services and 
     construction design under section 2807 of title 10, United 
     States Code, $66,184,000.
       (5) For military family housing functions:
       (A) For construction and acquisition, planning and design, 
     and improvement of military family housing and facilities, 
     $531,289,000.
       (B) For support of military housing (including functions 
     described in section 2833 of title 10, United States Code), 
     $1,045,329,000.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2201 of this Act may not exceed the 
     total amount authorized to be appropriated under paragraphs 
     (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
                         TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE
     SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2304(a)(1), the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations and locations inside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                                       Air Force: Inside the United States                                      
                   State                                  Installation or location                    Amount    
Alabama...................................  Maxwell Air Force Base..............................      $3,700,000
Alaska....................................  Eielson Air Force Base..............................      $3,850,000
                                            Elmendorf Air Force Base............................      $9,100,000
                                            Tin City Long Range RADAR Site......................      $2,500,000
Arizona...................................  Davis-Monthan Air Force Base........................      $4,800,000
                                            Luke Air Force Base.................................      $5,200,000
Arkansas..................................  Little Rock Air Force Base..........................      $2,500,000
California................................  Beale Air Force Base................................      $7,500,000
                                            Edwards Air Force Base..............................     $33,800,000
                                            Travis Air Force Base...............................     $26,700,000
                                            Vandenberg Air Force Base...........................      $6,000,000
Colorado..................................  Buckley Air National Guard Base.....................      $5,500,000
                                            Peterson Air Force Base.............................      $4,390,000
                                            US Air Force Academy................................     $12,874,000
Delaware..................................  Dover Air Force Base................................      $5,500,000
District of Columbia......................  Bolling Air Force Base..............................     $12,100,000
Florida...................................  Cape Canaveral Air Force Station....................      $1,600,000
                                            Eglin Air Force Base................................     $13,500,000
                                            Tyndall Air Force Base..............................      $1,200,000
Georgia...................................  Moody Air Force Base................................     $19,190,000
                                            Robins Air Force Base...............................      $6,900,000
Hawaii....................................  Hickam Air Force Base...............................     $10,700,000
Idaho.....................................  Mountain Home Air Force Base........................     $18,650,000
Illinois..................................  Scott Air Force Base................................     $12,700,000
Kansas....................................  McConnell Air Force Base............................     $15,950,000
Louisiana.................................  Barksdale Air Force Base............................      $2,500,000
[[Page H5849]]
Maryland..................................  Andrews Air Force Base..............................     $12,886,000
Mississippi...............................  Columbus Air Force Base.............................      $1,150,000
                                            Keesler Air Force Base..............................     $14,800,000
Missouri..................................  Whiteman Air Force Base.............................     $24,600,000
Nevada....................................  Nellis Air Force Base...............................     $10,500,000
New Jersey................................  McGuire Air Force Base..............................     $21,500,000
New Mexico................................  Cannon Air Force Base...............................     $13,420,000
                                            Kirtland Air Force Base.............................      $9,156,000
North Carolina............................  Pope Air Force Base.................................      $8,250,000
                                            Seymour Johnson Air Force Base......................      $7,530,000
North Dakota..............................  Grand Forks Air Force Base..........................     $14,800,000
                                            Minot Air Force Base................................      $1,550,000
Ohio......................................  Wright Patterson Air Force Base.....................      $4,100,000
Oklahoma..................................  Altus Air Force Base................................      $5,200,000
                                            Tinker Air Force Base...............................      $5,100,000
South Carolina............................  Charleston Air Force Base...........................     $12,500,000
                                            Shaw Air Force Base.................................      $1,300,000
Tennessee.................................  Arnold Air Force Base...............................      $5,000,000
Texas.....................................  Dyess Air Force Base................................      $5,400,000
                                            Goodfellow Air Force Base...........................      $1,000,000
                                            Kelly Air Force Base................................      $3,244,000
                                            Laughlin Air Force Base.............................      $1,400,000
                                            Randolph Air Force Base.............................      $3,100,000
                                            Reese Air Force Base................................      $1,200,000
                                            Sheppard Air Force Base.............................      $1,500,000
Virginia..................................  Langley Air Force Base..............................      $1,000,000
Washington................................  Fairchild Air Force Base............................     $15,700,000
                                            McChord Air Force Base..............................      $9,900,000
Wyoming...................................  F.E. Warren Air Force Base..........................     $13,000,000
CONUS Classified..........................  Classified Location.................................        $700,000
                                              Total:............................................    $479,390,000


     (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2304(a)(2), the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real 
     property and may carry out military construction projects for 
     the installations and locations outside the United States, 
     and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                                      Air Force: Outside the United States                                      
                  Country                                 Installation or location                    Amount    
Germany...................................  Spangdahlem Air Base................................      $8,380,000
                                            Vogelweh Annex......................................       2,600,000
Greece....................................  Araxos Radio Relay Site.............................       1,950,000
Italy.....................................  Aviano Air Base.....................................       2,350,000
                                            Ghedi Radio Relay Site..............................       1,450,000
Turkey....................................  Ankara Air Station..................................       7,000,000
                                            Incirlik Air Base...................................       4,500,000
United Kingdom............................  Lakenheath Royal Air Force Base.....................       1,820,000
                                            Mildenhall Royal Air Force Base.....................       2,250,000
Overseas Classified.......................  Classified Location.................................      17,100,000
                                              Total:............................................     $49,400,000


     SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.
       (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts 
     appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
     in section 2304(a)(5)(A), the Secretary of the Air Force may 
     construct or acquire family housing units (including land 
     acquisition) at the installations, for the purposes, and in 
     the amounts set forth in the following table:
                                            Air Force: Family Housing                                           
         State/Country                     Installation                       Purpose                 Amount    
Alaska.........................  Elmendorf Air Force Base.......  Housing Office/Maintenance                    
                                                                   Facility.....................      $3,000,000
Arizona........................  Davis-Monthan Air Force Base...  80 units......................       9,498,000
Arkansas.......................  Little Rock Air Force Base.....  Replace 1 General Officer                     
                                                                   Quarters.....................         210,000
California.....................  Beale Air Force Base...........  Family Housing Office.........         842,000
                                 Edwards Air Force Base.........  127 units.....................      20,750,000
                                 Vandenberg Air Force Base......  Family Housing Office.........         900,000
                                 Vandenberg Air Force Base......  143 units.....................      20,200,000
Colorado.......................  Peterson Air Force Base........  Family Housing Office.........         570,000
District of Columbia...........  Bolling Air Force Base.........  32 units......................       4,100,000
Florida........................  Eglin Air Force Base...........  Family Housing Office.........         500,000
                                 Eglin Auxiliary Field 9........  Family Housing Office.........         880,000
                                 MacDill Air Force Base.........  Family Housing Office.........         646,000
                                 Patrick Air Force Base.........  70 units......................       7,947,000
                                 Tyndall Air Force Base.........  82 units......................       9,800,000
Georgia........................  Moody Air Force Base...........  1 Officer &amp; 1 General Officer                 
                                                                   Quarter......................         513,000
Guam...........................  Andersen Air Force Base........  Housing Maintenance Facility..       1,700,000
Idaho..........................  Mountain Home Air Force Base...  Housing Management Facility...         844,000
Kansas.........................  McConnell Air Force Base.......  39 units......................       5,193,000
Louisiana......................  Barksdale Air Force Base.......  62 units......................      10,299,000
Massachusetts..................  Hanscom Air Force Base.........  32 units......................       4,900,000
Mississippi....................  Keesler Air Force Base.........  98 units......................       9,300,000
Missouri.......................  Whiteman Air Force Base........  72 units......................       9,948,000
Nevada.........................  Nellis Air Force Base..........  143 Units.....................      22,357,000
New Mexico.....................  Holloman Air Force Base........  1 General Officer Quarters....         225,000
                                 Kirtland Air Force Base........  105 units.....................      11,000,000
North Carolina.................  Pope Air Force Base............  104 units.....................       9,984,000
                                 Seymour Johnson Air Force Base.  1 General Officer Quarters....         204,000
South Carolina.................  Shaw Air Force Base............  Housing Maintenance Facility..         715,000
Texas..........................  Dyess Air Force Base...........  Housing Maintenance Facility..         580,000
                                 Lackland Air Force Base........  67 units......................       6,200,000
                                 Sheppard Air Force Base........  Management Office.............         500,000
                                 Sheppard Air Force Base........  Housing Maintenance Facility..         600,000
Turkey.........................  Incirlik Air Base..............  150 units.....................      10,146,000
[[Page H5850]]
Washington.....................  McChord Air Force Base.........  50 units......................       9,504,000
                                                                    Total:......................    $194,555,000



     (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2304(a)(5)(A), the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out 
     architectural and engineering services and construction 
     design activities with respect to the construction or 
     improvement of military family housing units in an amount not 
     to exceed $8,989,000.
     SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
       Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, 
     and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization 
     of appropriations in section 2304(a)(5)(A), the Secretary of 
     the Air Force may improve existing military family housing 
     units in an amount not to exceed $90,959,000.
     SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.
       (a) In General.--Funds are hereby authorized to be 
     appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 
     1995, for military construction, land acquisition, and 
     military family housing functions of the Department of the 
     Air Force in the total amount of $1,727,557,000 as follows:
       (1) For military construction projects inside the United 
     States authorized by section 2301(a), $479,390,000.
       (2) For military construction projects outside the United 
     States authorized by section 2301(b), $49,400,000.
       (3) For unspecified minor construction projects authorized 
     by section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, $9,030,000.
       (4) For architectural and engineering services and 
     construction design under section 2807 of title 10, United 
     States Code, $49,021,000.
       (5) For military housing functions:
       (A) For construction and acquisition, planning and design 
     and improvement of military family housing and facilities, 
     $294,503,000.
       (B) For support of military family housing (including the 
     functions described in section 2833 of title 10, United 
     States Code), $846,213,000.
       (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 
     2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2301 of this Act may not exceed the 
     total amount authorized to be appropriated under paragraphs 
     (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
     SEC. 2305. RETENTION OF ACCRUED INTEREST ON FUNDS DEPOSITED 
                   FOR CONSTRUCTION OF FAMILY HOUSING, SCOTT AIR 
                   FORCE BASE, ILLINOIS.
       (a) Retention of Interest.--Section 2310 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (division 
     B of Public Law 103-160; 107 Stat. 1874) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(b) Retention of Interest.--Interest accrued on the funds 
     transferred to the County pursuant to subsection (a) shall be 
     retained in the same account as the transferred funds and 
     shall be available to the County for the same purpose as the 
     transferred funds.''.
       (b) Limitation on Units Constructed.--Subsection (c) of 
     such section, as redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
     ``The number of units constructed using the transferred funds 
     (and interest accrued on these funds) may not exceed the 
     number of units of military family housing authorized for 
     Scott Air Force Base, Illinois, in section 2302(a) of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 
     (division B of Public Law 102-484; 106 Stat. 2595).''.
       (c) Effect of Completion of Construction.--Such section is 
     further amended by adding at the end the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(d) Completion of Construction.--Upon the completion of 
     the construction authorized by this section, all funds 
     remaining from the funds transferred pursuant to subsection 
     (a) and the interest accrued on these funds shall be 
     deposited in the general fund of the Treasury of the United 
     States.''.
                      TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES
     SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
       (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2405(a)(1), and, in the case of the project described in 
     section 2405(b)(2), other amounts appropriated pursuant to 
     authorizations enacted after this Act for that project, the 
     Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out 
     military construction projects for the installations and 
     locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set 
     forth in the following table:
                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States                                   
               Agency/State                               Installation or location                    Amount    
Ballistic Missile Defense Organization                                                                          
Texas.....................................  Fort Bliss..........................................     $13,600,000
Defense Finance &amp; Accounting Service                                                                            
Ohio......................................  Columbus Center.....................................     $72,403,000
Defense Intelligence Agency                                                                                     
District of Columbia......................  Bolling Air Force Base..............................      $1,743,000
Defense Logistics Agency                                                                                        
Alabama...................................  Defense Distribution Anniston.......................      $3,550,000
California................................  Defense Distribution Stockton.......................     $15,000,000
                                            DFSC, Point Mugu....................................        $750,000
Delaware..................................  DFSC, Dover Air Force Base..........................     $15,554,000
Florida...................................  DFSC, Eglin Air Force Base..........................      $2,400,000
Louisiana.................................  DFSC, Barksdale Air Force Base......................     $13,100,000
New Jersey................................  DFSC, McGuire Air Force Base........................     $12,000,000
Pennsylvania..............................  Def Distribution New Cumberland--DDSP...............      $4,600,000
Virginia..................................  Defense Distribution Depot--DDNV....................    $10,400,0000
Defense Mapping Agency                                                                                          
Missouri..................................  Defense Mapping Agency Aerospace Center.............     $40,300,000
Defense Medical Facility Office                                                                                 
Arizona...................................  Luke Air Force Base.................................      $8,100,000
California................................  Fort Irwin..........................................      $6,900,000
                                            Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton...................      $1,700,000
                                            Vandenberg Air Force Base...........................      $5,700,000
Delaware..................................  Dover Air Force Base................................      $4,400,000
Georgia...................................  Fort Benning........................................      $5,600,000
Louisiana.................................  Barksdale Air Force Base............................      $4,100,000
Maryland..................................  Bethesda Naval Hospital.............................      $1,300,000
                                            Walter Reed Army Institute of Research..............      $1,550,000
Texas.....................................  Fort Hood...........................................      $5,500,000
                                            Lackland Air Force Base.............................      $6,100,000
                                            Reese Air Force Base................................      $1,000,000
Virginia..................................  Northwest Naval Security Group Activity.............      $4,300,000
National Security Agency                                                                                        
Maryland..................................  Fort Meade..........................................     $18,733,000
Office of the Secretary of Defense                                                                              
Inside the United States..................  Classified location.................................     $11,500,000
Department of Defense Dependents Schools                                                                        
Alabama...................................  Maxwell Air Force Base..............................      $5,479,000
Georgia...................................  Fort Benning........................................      $1,116,000
South Carolina............................  Fort Jackson........................................        $576,000
Special Operations Command                                                                                      
California................................  Naval Air Station, Miramar..........................      $5,200,000
Florida...................................  Duke Field..........................................      $2,400,000
                                            Eglin Auxiliary Field 9.............................     $14,150,000
[[Page H5851]]
Louisiana.................................  Naval Support Activity, New Orleans.................        $730,000
North Carolina............................  Fort Bragg..........................................     $23,800,000
Pennsylvania..............................  Olmstead Field, Harrisburg IAP......................      $1,643,000
Virginia..................................  Dam Neck............................................      $6,100,000
                                            Naval Amphibious Base, Little Creek.................      $4,500,000
                                              Total:............................................    $357,577,000


     (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated 
     pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
     2405(a)(2), the Secretary of Defense may acquire real 
     property and carry out military construction projects for the 
     installations and locations outside the United States, and in 
     the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States                                  
              Agency/Country                                  Installation Name                       Amount    
Defense Logistics Agency                                                                                        
Puerto Rico...............................  Defense Fuel Support Point, Roosevelt Roads.........      $6,200,000
Spain.....................................  DFSC Rota...........................................      $7,400,000
Defense Medical Facility Office                                                                                 
Italy.....................................  Naval Support Activity, Naples......................      $5,000,000
Department of Defense Dependents Schools                                                                        
Germany...................................  Ramstein Air Force Base.............................     $19,205,000
Italy.....................................  Naval Air Station, Sigonella........................      $7,595,000
National Security Agency                                                                                        
United Kingdom............................  Menwith Hill Station................................        $677,000
Special Operations Command                                                                                      
Guam......................................  Naval Station, Guam.................................      $8,800,000
                                              Total:............................................     $54,877,000


     SEC. 2402. FAMILY HOUSING PRIVATE INVESTMENT.
       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2405(a)(13)(A), the Secretary of 
     Defense may enter into agreements to construct, acquire, and 
     improve family housing units (including land acquisition) at 
     or near military installations, for the purpose of 
     encouraging private investments, in the amount of 
     $22,000,000. Amounts appropriated pursuant to such section 
     may be transferred from the Department of Defense Family 
     Housing Improvement Fund established under section 2873 of 
     title 10, United States Code, to the family housing accounts 
     of the military departments for the purpose of encouraging 
     private investments.
     SEC. 2403. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
       Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, 
     and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization 
     of appropriations in section 2405(a)(13)(A), the Secretary of 
     Defense may improve existing military family housing units in 
     an amount not to exceed $3,772,000.
     SEC. 2404. ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS.
       Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2405(a)(11), the Secretary of 
     Defense may carry out energy conservation projects under 
     section 2865 of title 10, United States Code.
     SEC. 2405. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.
       (a) In General.--Funds are hereby authorized to be 
     appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 
     1995, for military construction, land acquisition, and 
     military family housing functions of the Department of 
     Defense (other than the military departments), in the total 
     amount of $4,692,463,000 as follows:
       (1) For military construction projects inside the United 
     States authorized by section 2401(a), $322,574,000.
       (2) For military construction projects outside the United 
     States authorized by section 2401(b), $54,877,000.
       (3) For military construction projects at Portsmouth Naval 
     Hospital, Virginia, authorized by section 2401(a) of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 
     and 1991 (division B of Public Law 101-189; 103 Stat. 1640), 
     $47,900,000.
       (4) For military construction projects at Elmendorf Air 
     Force Base, Alaska, hospital replacement, authorized by 
     section 2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (division B of Public Law 102-484; 
     106 Stat. 2599), $28,100,000.
       (5) For military construction projects at Walter Reed Army 
     Institute of Research, Maryland, hospital replacement, 
     authorized by section 2401(a) of the Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (division B of Public 
     Law 102-484; 106 Stat. 2599), $27,000,000.
       (6) For military construction projects at Pine Bluff 
     Arsenal, Arkansas, authorized by section 2401(a) of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 
     (division B of Public Law 103-337; 108 Stat. 3040), 
     $40,000,000.
       (7) For military construction projects at Umatilla Army 
     Depot, Oregon, authorized by section 2401(a) of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (division 
     B of Public Law 103-337; 108 Stat. 3040), $55,000,000.
       (8) For unspecified minor construction projects under 
     section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, $23,007,000.
       (9) For contingency construction projects of the Secretary 
     of Defense under section 2804 of title 10, United States 
     Code, $11,037,000.
       (10) For architectural and engineering services and 
     construction design under section 2807 of title 10, United 
     State Code, $68,837,000.
       (11) For energy conservation projects authorized by section 
     2404, $50,000,000.
       (12) For base closure and realignment activities as 
     authorized by the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 
     1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 
     2687 note), $3,897,892,000.
       (13) For military family housing functions:
       (A) For construction and acquisition and improvement of 
     military family housing and facilities, $25,772,000.
       (B) For support of military housing (including functions 
     described in section 2833 of title 10, United States Code), 
     $40,467,000, of which not more than $24,874,000 may be 
     obligated or expended for the leasing of military family 
     housing units worldwide.
       (b) Limitation of Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
     Notwithstanding the cost variation authorized by section 2853 
     of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost 
     variations authorized by law, the total cost of all projects 
     carried out under section 2401 of this Act may not exceed--
       (1) the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a); and
       (2) $35,003,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
     section 2401(a) for the construction of a center of the 
     Defense Finance and Accounting Service at Columbus, Ohio).
     SEC. 2406. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 
                   1995 PROJECTS.
       The table in section 2401 of the Military Construction 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (division B of Public 
     Law 103-337; 108 Stat. 3040), under the agency heading 
     relating to Chemical Weapons and Munitions Destruction, is 
     amended--
       (1) in the item relating to Pine Bluff Arsenal, Arkansas, 
     by striking out ``$3,000,000'' in the amount column and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``$115,000,000''; and
       (2) in the item relating to Umatilla Army Depot, Oregon, by 
     striking out ``$12,000,000'' in the amount column and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``$186,000,000''.
     SEC. 2407. LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURES FOR CONSTRUCTION 
                   PROJECT AT UMATILLA ARMY DEPOT, OREGON.
       None of the funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
     for fiscal year 1996 for the construction of a chemical 
     munitions incinerator facility at Umatilla Army Depot may be 
     obligated or expended before March 1, 1996.
      TITLE XXV--NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION INFRASTRUCTURE
     SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
                   PROJECTS.
       The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the 
     North Atlantic Treaty Organization Infrastructure program as 
     provided in section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in 
     an amount not to exceed the sum of the amount authorized to 
     be appropriated for this purpose in section 2502 and the 
     amount collected from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     as a result of construction previously financed by the United 
     States.
     SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.
       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
     years beginning after September 30, 1995, for contributions 
     by the Secretary of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, 
     United States Code, for the share of the United States of the 
     cost of projects for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     Infrastructure program, as authorized by section 2501, in the 
     amount of $161,000,000.
     [[Page H5852]]
            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES
     SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED GUARD AND RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
                   ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
       There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
     beginning after September 30, 1995, for the costs of 
     acquisition, architectural and engineering services, and 
     construction of facilities for the Guard and Reserve Forces, 
     and for contributions therefor, under chapter 133 of title 
     10, United States Code (including the cost of acquisition of 
     land for those facilities), the following amounts:
       (1) For the Department of the Army--
       (A) for the Army National Guard of the United States, 
     $72,537,000; and
       (B) for the Army Reserve, $42,963,000.
       (2) For the Department of the Navy, for the Naval and 
     Marine Corps Reserve, $19,655,000.
       (3) For the Department of the Air Force--
       (A) for the Air National Guard of the United States, 
     $118,267,000; and
       (B) for the Air Force Reserve, $31,502,000.
     SEC. 2602. CORRECTION IN AUTHORIZED USES OF FUNDS FOR ARMY 
                   NATIONAL GUARD PROJECTS IN MISSISSIPPI.
       Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
     appropriations in section 2601(1)(A) of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (division 
     B of Public Law 103-160; 107 Stat. 1878) for the addition or 
     alteration of Army National Guard Armories at various 
     locations in the State of Mississippi shall be available for 
     the addition, alteration, or new construction of armory 
     facilities and an operation and maintenance shop facility 
     (including the acquisition of land for such facilities) at 
     various locations in the State of Mississippi.
        TITLE XXVII--EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS
     SEC. 2701. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED 
                   TO BE SPECIFIED BY LAW.
       (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Three Years.--Except 
     as provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained 
     in titles XXI through XXVI for military construction 
     projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and 
     facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization Infrastructure program (and authorizations of 
     appropriations therefor) shall expire on the later of--
       (1) October 1, 1998; or
       (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
     for military construction for fiscal year 1999.
       (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to 
     authorizations for military construction projects, land 
     acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and 
     contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     Infrastructure program (and authorizations of appropriations 
     therefor), for which appropriated funds have been obligated 
     before the later of--
       (1) October 1, 1998; or
       (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
     for fiscal year 1999 for military construction projects, land 
     acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
     contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     Infrastructure program.
     SEC. 2702. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   1993 PROJECTS.
       (a) Extensions.--Notwithstanding section 2701 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 
     (division B of Public Law 102-484; 106 Stat. 2602), 
     authorizations for the projects set forth in the tables in 
     subsection (b), as provided in section 2101, 2102, 2201, 
     2301, or 2601 of that Act, shall remain in effect until 
     October 1, 1996, or the date of the enactment of an Act 
     authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 
     1997, whichever is later.
       (b) Tables.--The tables referred to in subsection (a) are 
     as follows:
             Army: Extension of 1993 Project Authorizations             
                     Installation or                                    
       State             location           Project           Amount    
Arkansas..........  Pine Bluff         Ammunition                       
                     Arsenal.           Demilitarization                
                                        Support Facility     $15,000,000
Hawaii............  Schofield                                           
                     Barracks........  Additions and                    
                                        Alterations                     
                                        Sewage Treatment                
                                        Plant...........     $17,500,000
Virginia..........  Fort Pickett.....  Sewage Treatment                 
                                        Plant...........      $5,800,000
                                       Family Housing                   
                                        (26 Units)......      $2,300,000



                                 Navy: Extension of 1993 Project Authorizations                                 
        State                Installation or  location                     Project                    Amount    
California...........  Camp Pendleton Marine Corps Base....  Sewage Treatment Plant.............     $19,740,000
Maryland.............  Patuxent River Naval Warfare Center.  Advanced Systems Integration                       
                                                              Facility..........................     $60,990,000
Mississippi..........  Meridian Naval Air Station..........  Child Development Center...........      $1,100,000
Virginia.............  Dam Neck Fleet Combat Training                                                           
                        Center.............................  Land Acquisition...................      $4,500,000



                               Air Force: Extension of 1993 Project Authorization                               
   State or country          Installation or  location                     Project                    Amount    
District of Columbia.  Bolling Air Force Base..............  Base Engineer Complex..............      $1,300,000
North Carolina.......  Pope Air Force Base.................  Munitions Storage Complex..........      $4,300,000
Virginia.............  Langley Air Force Base..............  Civil Engineer Complex.............      $5,300,000
Guam.................  Andersen Air Force Base.............  Solid Waste Complex................     $10,000,000
Portugal.............  Lajes Field.........................  Water Wells........................        $865,000
                                                             Fire Training Facility.............      $1,300,000



                             Army Reserve: Extension of 1993 Project Authorizations                             
        State                        Location                              Project                    Amount    
West Virginia........  Bluefield...........................  Additions and Alterations Reserve                  
                                                              Center............................      $1,921,000
                       Clarksburg..........................  Additions and Alterations AMSA.....      $1,156,000
                       Grantville..........................  Reserve Center/OMS.................      $2,785,000
                       Jane Lew............................  Reserve Center.....................      $1,566,000
                       Lewisburg...........................  Reserve Center/OMS.................      $1,631,000
                       Weirton.............................  Reserve Center/OMS.................      $3,481,000



                          Army National Guard: Extension of 1993 Project Authorizations                         
        State                        Location                              Project                    Amount    
New Jersey...........  Fort Dix............................  Additions and Alterations Armory...      $4,750,000
Oregon...............  La Grande...........................  OMS................................        $995,000
                                                             Armory Addition....................      $3,049,000


     SEC. 2703. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
                   1992 PROJECTS.
       (a) Extensions.--Notwithstanding section 2701 of the 
     Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1992 
     (division B of Public Law 102-190; 105 Stat. 1535), 
     authorizations for the projects set forth in the tables in 
     subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 or 2601 of that 
     Act and extended by section 2702(a) of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (division 
     B of Public Law 103-337; 108 Stat. 3047), shall remain in 
     effect until October 1, 1996, or the date of the enactment of 
     an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal 
     year 1997, whichever is later.
       (b) Tables.--The tables referred to in subsection (a) are 
     as follows:
                                 Army: Extension of 1992 Project Authorizations                                 
        State                Installation or  location                     Project                    Amount    
Oregon...............  Umatilla Army Depot.................  Ammunition Demilitarization Support                
                                                              Facility..........................      $3,600,000
                                                             Ammunition Demilitarization                        
                                                              Utilities.........................      $7,500,000



                              Army Reserve: Extension of 1992 Project Authorization                             
        State                        Location                              Project                    Amount    
Tennessee............  Jackson.............................  Joint Training Facility............      $1,537,000


   SEC. 2704. EFFECTIVE DATE.
       Titles XXI, XXII, XXIII, XXIV, XXV, and XXVI shall take 
     effect on the later of--
       (1) October 1, 1995; or
       (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    TITLE XXVIII--GENERAL PROVISIONS
 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                Changes
     SEC. 2801. ALTERNATIVE MEANS OF ACQUIRING AND IMPROVING 
                   MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING AND SUPPORTING 
                   FACILITIES FOR THE ARMED FORCES.
       (a) Findings and Purpose.--(1) Congress finds the 
     following:
       (A) Adequate military family housing is essential to the 
     retention of well-trained and professional members of the 
     Armed Forces.
       (B) Current military family housing is in many 
     circumstances substandard, inadequately maintained, or 
     obsolete. Of the more than 375,000 military families living 
     on military installations, two-thirds of such families reside 
     in unsuitable quarters.
       (C) Traditional military construction techniques are 
     frequently lengthy and more expensive than commercial 
     methods. At current appropriation levels, modernization of 
     military family housing located on military installations 
     could require more than 30 years to accomplish.
       (D) A combination of private housing capital and commercial 
     construction techniques could help to alleviate the shortage 
     of suitable military family housing in a far more timely and 
     cost effective manner.
       (2) It is the purpose of this section to obtain new and 
     improved military family housing and ancillary supporting 
     facilities for the Armed Forces using private capital and 
     expertise.
       (b) Alternative Provision of Housing and Facilities.--(1) 
     Chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     adding at the end the following new subchapter:
   ``SUBCHAPTER IV--ALTERNATIVE PROVISION OF MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING
``Sec.
``2871. Definitions.
``2872. General limitations and authorities.
``2873. Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund.
``2875. Housing finance and acquisition authorities.
``2876. Expiration of authority.
     ``Sec. 2871. Definitions
       ``In this subchapter:
       ``(1) The term `construction' means the construction of 
     additional units of military family housing and ancillary 
     supporting facilities or the replacement or renovation of 
     existing units or ancillary supporting facilities.
       ``(2) The term `ancillary supporting facilities' means 
     facilities related to military family housing, such as day 
     care centers, community centers, housing offices, maintenance 
     complexes, tot lots, and parks. Such term does not include 
     commercial facilities that could not otherwise be constructed 
     using funds appropriated to the Department of Defense.
       ``(3) The term `contract' includes any contract, lease, or 
     other agreement entered into under the authority of this 
     subchapter.
       ``(4) The term `Fund' means the Department of Defense 
     Family Housing Improvement Fund established under section 
     2873(a) of this title.
     ``Sec. 2872. General limitations and authorities
       ``(a) Use of Authorities.--The Secretary concerned may use 
     the authorities provided by this subchapter, singly or in 
     conjunction with other authorities provided under this 
     chapter, to help meet the military family housing needs of 
     members of the armed forces and the dependents of such 
     members at military installations at which there is a 
     shortage of suitable housing for members and their 
     dependents.
       ``(b) Term.--Subject to section 2873(d)(2) of this title, a 
     contract entered into under this subchapter may be for such 
     term as the Secretary concerned considers to be in the best 
     interests of the United States.
       ``(c) Phased Occupancy.--A contract under this subchapter 
     may provide for phased occupancy of completed family housing 
     units under one or more interim leases during the period of 
     the construction or renovation of the housing units. In no 
     case shall any such interim lease extend beyond the 
     construction or renovation period.
       ``(d) Unit Size and Type.--Section 2826 of this title shall 
     not apply to military family housing units acquired or 
     constructed under this subchapter, except that room and floor 
     area size of such housing units should generally be 
     comparable to private sector housing available in the same 
     locality. When acquiring existing family housing in lieu of 
     construction under section 2824 of this title, the Secretary 
     concerned may vary the number of types of units to be 
     acquired as long as the total number of units is 
     substantially the same as authorized by law.
       ``(e) Location.--The Secretary concerned may use the 
     authorities provided under this subchapter to acquire or 
     construct military family housing units and ancillary 
     supporting facilities in the United States, the Commonwealth 
     of Puerto Rico, and in any territory or possession of the 
     United States.
       ``(f) Notification Required for Contracts.--The Secretary 
     concerned may not enter into a contract under this subchapter 
     until after the end of the 21-day period beginning on the 
     date the Secretary concerned submits to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress written notice of the nature and terms 
     of the contract.
       ``(g) Assignments.--The Secretary concerned may assign 
     members of the armed forces to any military family housing 
     obtained using the authorities provided in this subchapter in 
     accordance with section 403(b) of title 37.
       ``(h) Allotments.--The Secretary concerned may require a 
     member of the armed forces to pay rent by allotment as a 
     condition of occupying military family housing obtained using 
     the authorities provided in this subchapter.
       ``(i) Supporting Facilities.--Any contract entered into 
     under this subchapter may include provisions for the 
     construction or acquisition of ancillary supporting 
     facilities.
       ``(j) Authority To Lease or Sell Land, Housing, and 
     Supporting Facilities.--(1) The Secretary concerned may lease 
     or sell land, housing, and ancillary supporting facilities 
     under the jurisdiction of the Secretary for the purpose of 
     providing additional military family housing or improving 
     existing military family housing under this subchapter, 
     except that the authority to lease or sell real property 
     under this subchapter shall not extend to property located at 
     a military installation approved for closure.
       ``(2) A sale or lease under this subsection may be made for 
     such consideration and upon such terms and conditions as the 
     Secretary concerned shall determine to be consistent with the 
     purposes of this subchapter and the public interest. The 
     acreage and legal description of any property leased or 
     conveyed under this subsection shall be determined by a 
     survey satisfactory to the Secretary concerned.
       ``(3) Section 2667 of this title, the Federal Property and 
     Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471), section 
     501 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 
     U.S.C. 11411), and section 321 of the Act of June 30, 1932 
     (47 Stat. 412) shall not apply to leases and sales under this 
     subsection.
       ``(4) As part or all of the consideration for the sale or 
     lease of property under this subsection, the Secretary 
     concerned shall require an ancillary agreement under which 
     the person receiving the property agrees to give priority to 
     military members and their dependents in the leasing of 
     existing or new housing units under the control or provided 
     by the person. Such agreements may provide for the payment by 
     the Secretary concerned of security or damage deposits.
     ``Sec. 2873. Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement 
       Fund
       ``(a) Establishment.--There is hereby established on the 
     books of the Treasury an account to be known as the 
     Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, which 
     shall be administered by the Secretary of Defense as a single 
     account. Amounts in the Fund shall be available without 
     fiscal year limitation.
       ``(b) Deposits.--There shall be deposited into the Fund the 
     following:
       ``(1) Amounts authorized for and appropriated into the 
     Fund.
       ``(2) Subject to subsection (c), any amounts that the 
     Secretary of Defense may transfer to the Fund from amounts 
     appropriated to the Department of Defense for construction of 
     military family housing.
       ``(3) Proceeds received from the conveyance or lease of 
     real property under section 2872(j) of this title, income 
     from operations conducted under this subchapter, including 
     refunds of deposits, and any return of capital or return on 
     investments entered into under this subchapter.
       ``(c) Notification Required for Transfers.--A transfer of 
     appropriated amounts to the Fund under subsection (b)(2) may 
     be made only after the end of the 30-day period beginning on 
     the date the Secretary of Defense submits written notice of, 
     and justification for, the transfer to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress.
       ``(d) Use of Funds.--(1) In such total amount as is 
     provided in advance in appropriation Acts, the Secretary of 
     Defense may use amounts in the Fund for alternative means of 
     financing military family housing and ancillary supporting 
     facilities as authorized in this subchapter.
       ``(2) The Secretary may not enter into a contract under 
     this subchapter unless the Fund contains sufficient amounts, 
     as of the time the contract is entered into, to satisfy the 
     total obligations to be incurred by the United States under 
     the contract.
       ``(3) The total value in budget authority of all contracts 
     and investments undertaken using the authorities provided in 
     the subchapter shall not exceed $1,000,000,000.
       ``(e) Loans and Loan Guarantees.--Loans and loan guarantees 
     may be entered into under this subchapter only to the extent 
     that appropriations of budget authority to cover their costs 
     [[Page H5854]] (as defined in section 502(5) of the Federal 
     Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5))) are made in 
     advance, or authority is otherwise provided in appropriations 
     Acts.
       ``(f) Annual Report.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit 
     to the appropriate committees of Congress an annual report 
     detailing the expenditures from and deposits into the Fund 
     during the preceding year and the utilization and 
     effectiveness of the authorities provided by this subchapter. 
     The Secretary shall submit the report at the same time that 
     the President submits the budget to Congress under section 
     1105 of title 31.
     ``Sec. 2875. Housing finance and acquisition authorities
       ``(a) Guarantees.--(1) The Secretary concerned may enter 
     into contracts that provide for guarantees, insurance, or 
     other contingent payments to owners, mortgagors, or assignees 
     of housing units and ancillary supporting facilities that are 
     made available for use by members of the armed forces.
       ``(2) Contingencies under which payments may be made under 
     such a contract include the following:
       ``(A) A failure to pay interest or principal on mortgages, 
     generally or as a result of a base closure or realignment, a 
     reduction in force, an extended deployment of assigned 
     forces, or similar contingencies.
       ``(B) A failure to achieve specified occupancy levels of, 
     or rental income from, housing units covered by a contract.
       ``(3) Such contracts may be on such terms and conditions as 
     the Secretary concerned considers necessary or desirable to 
     induce the provision of housing and ancillary supporting 
     facilities, whether by acquisition or construction, for use 
     by members of the armed forces, and to protect the financial 
     interests of the United States.
       ``(b) Leases.--The Secretary concerned may enter into a 
     contract for the lease of housing units to be acquired or 
     constructed on or near a military installation. Such a 
     contract may provide for the owner of the property to operate 
     and maintain the facilities.
       ``(c) Differential Payments.--In entering into contracts 
     under this subchapter, the Secretary concerned may make a 
     differential payment in addition to rental payments made by 
     individual members.
       ``(d) Investments.--(1) The Secretary concerned may make 
     investments in nongovernmental entities involved in the 
     acquisition or construction of housing and ancillary 
     supporting facilities on or near a military installation for 
     such consideration and upon such terms and conditions as the 
     Secretary concerned determines to be consistent with the 
     purposes of this subchapter and the public interest.
       ``(2) Such investments may take the form of limited 
     partnership interests, stock, debt instruments, or a 
     combination thereof.
       ``(3) The investment made by the Secretary concerned in an 
     acquisition or construction project under this subsection, 
     whether the investment is in the form of cash, land or 
     buildings under section 2872(j) of this title, or other form, 
     may not exceed 35 percent of the capital costs of the 
     acquisition or construction project.
       ``(e) Collateral Incentive Agreements.--The Secretary 
     concerned may also enter into collateral incentive agreements 
     in connection with investments made under subsection (d) to 
     ensure that a suitable preference will be afforded members of 
     the armed forces to lease or purchase, at affordable rates, a 
     reasonable number of the housing units covered by the 
     investment contract.
     ``Sec. 2876. Expiration of authority
       ``The authority of the Secretaries concerned to enter into 
     contracts and partnerships and to make investments under this 
     subchapter shall expire on September 30, 2000.''.
       (2) The table of subchapters at the beginning of chapter 
     169 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to subchapter III the following new 
     item:
Alternative Provision of Military Family Housing..................2871.
     SEC. 2802. INCLUSION OF OTHER ARMED FORCES IN NAVY PROGRAM OF 
                   LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS WITH PRIVATE DEVELOPERS 
                   FOR MILITARY HOUSING.
       (a) Expanded Authority for Housing Partnerships.--(1) 
     Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, 
     as added by section 2801, is amended by inserting after 
     section 2873 the following new section:
     Sec. ``2874. Limited partnerships with private developers of 
       housing
       ``(a) Limited Partnerships.--In order to meet the housing 
     requirements of members of the armed forces, and the 
     dependents of such members, at a military installation 
     described in section 2872(a) of this title, the Secretary 
     concerned may enter into a limited partnership with one or 
     more private developers to encourage the construction of 
     housing and ancillary supporting facilities within commuting 
     distance of the installation. Section 2875(d) of this title 
     shall apply with respect to the investments the Secretary 
     concerned may make toward development costs under a limited 
     partnership.
       ``(b) Collateral Incentive Agreements.--The Secretary 
     concerned may also enter into collateral incentive agreements 
     with private developers who enter into a limited partnership 
     under subsection (a) to ensure that, where appropriate--
       ``(1) a suitable preference will be afforded members of the 
     armed forces in the lease or purchase, as the case may be, of 
     a reasonable number of the housing units covered by the 
     limited partnership; or
       ``(2) the rental rates or sale prices, as the case may be, 
     for some or all of such units will be affordable for such 
     members.
       ``(c) Selection of Investment Opportunities.--(1) The 
     Secretary concerned shall use publicly advertised, 
     competitively bid or competitively negotiated, contracting 
     procedures, as provided in chapter 137 of this title, to 
     enter into limited partnerships under subsection (a).
       ``(2) When a decision is made by the Secretary concerned to 
     enter into a limited partnership under subsection (a), the 
     Secretary shall submit a report in writing to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress on that decision. Each such report 
     shall include the justification for the limited partnership, 
     the terms and conditions of the limited partnership, a 
     description of the development costs for projects under the 
     limited partnership, and a description of the share of such 
     costs to be incurred by the Secretary concerned. The 
     Secretary concerned may then enter into the limited 
     partnership only after the end of the 21-day period beginning 
     on the date the report is received by such committees.
       ``(d) Housing Investment Boards.--(1) Each Secretary 
     concerned shall establish a housing investment board, which 
     shall have the duties--
       ``(A) of advising the Secretary concerned regarding those 
     proposed limited partnerships under subsection (a), if any, 
     that are financially and otherwise sound investments for 
     meeting the objectives of this section;
       ``(B) of administering amounts in the Account established 
     under section 2873 of this title that are made available to 
     the Secretary concerned to carry out this section; and
       ``(C) of performing such other tasks as the Secretary 
     concerned determines to be necessary and appropriate to 
     assist the Secretary to carry out the duties of the Secretary 
     under this section.
       ``(2) A housing investment board shall be composed of seven 
     members appointed for a two-year term by the Secretary 
     concerned. Among such members, the Secretary concerned may 
     appoint two persons from the private sector who have 
     knowledge and experience in the financing and the 
     construction of housing. The Secretary concerned shall 
     designate one of the members as chairperson.
       ``(3) Members of a housing investment board, other than 
     those members regularly employed by the Federal Government, 
     may be paid while attending meetings of the board or 
     otherwise serving at the request of the Secretary concerned, 
     compensation at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the 
     minimum annual rate of basic pay payable for level IV of the 
     Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5 for each day 
     (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in 
     the actual performance of duties vested in the board. Members 
     shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
     subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of 
     title 5.
       ``(4) The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) 
     shall not apply to the housing investment boards.
       ``(5) The housing investment boards shall terminate on 
     September 30, 2000.''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such 
     subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
     section 2873 the following new item:
``2874. Limited partnerships with private developers of housing.''.
       (b) Proceeds From Participation in Partnerships.--Section 
     2873(b) of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 
     2801, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     paragraph:
       ``(4) Proceeds received by the Secretary concerned from the 
     repayment of investments or profits on investments of the 
     Secretary under section 2874(a) of this title.''.
       (c) Conforming Repeal.--(1) Section 2837 of title 10, 
     United States Code, is repealed. The repeal of such section 
     shall not be construed to affect the validity or terms of any 
     limited partnership or collateral incentive agreement entered 
     into by the Secretary of the Navy under such section before 
     the date of the enactment of this Act. Amounts in the Navy 
     Housing Investment Account shall be transferred to the 
     Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund 
     established under section 2873 of such title, as added by 
     section 2801.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter II 
     of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
     striking out the item relating to section 2837.
     SEC. 2803. SPECIAL UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION THRESHOLDS 
                   FOR PROJECTS TO CORRECT LIFE, HEALTH, AND 
                   SAFETY DEFICIENCIES AND CLARIFICATION OF 
                   UNSPECIFIED MINOR CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY.
       (a) Special Thresholds.--Section 2805 of title 10, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1), by adding at the end the 
     following new sentence: ``However, if the military 
     construction project is intended solely to correct a life, 
     health, or safety deficiency, a minor military construction 
     project may have an approved cost equal to or less than 
     $3,000,000.''; and
       (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking out ``not more than 
     $300,000.'' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: 
     ``not more than--
       ``(A) $1,000,000, in the case of an unspecified military 
     construction project intended solely to correct a life, 
     health, or safety deficiency; or
       ``(B) $300,000, in the case of other unspecified military 
     construction projects.''.
       (b) Description of Minor Construction.--Subsection (a)(1) 
     of such section is further amended by striking out ``(1) that 
     is for a single undertaking at a military installation, and 
     (2)''.
     SEC. 2804. DISPOSITION OF AMOUNTS RECOVERED AS A RESULT OF 
                   DAMAGE TO REAL PROPERTY.
       (a) In General.--Chapter 165 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 2781 the 
     following new section:
     [[Page H5855]]
     ``Sec. 2782. Damage to real property: disposition of amounts 
       recovered
       ``Except as provided in section 2775 of this title, amounts 
     recovered for damage caused to real property under the 
     jurisdiction of the Secretary of a military department or, 
     with respect to the Defense Agencies, under the jurisdiction 
     of the Secretary of Defense shall be credited to the account 
     available for the repair or replacement of the real property 
     at the time of recovery. In such amounts as are provided in 
     advance in appropriation Acts, amounts so credited shall be 
     available for use for the same purposes and under the same 
     circumstances as other funds in the account.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 2781 the following new item:
``2782. Damage to real property: disposition of amounts recovered.''.
     SEC. 2805. RENTAL OF FAMILY HOUSING IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
       Section 2828(e) of title 10, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) by striking out ``300 units'' in the first sentence and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``450 units''; and
       (B) by striking out ``220 such units'' in the second 
     sentence and inserting in lieu thereof ``350 such units''; 
     and
       (2) in paragraph (2), by striking out ``300 units'' and 
     inserting in lieu thereof ``450 units''.
     SEC. 2806. PILOT PROGRAM TO PROVIDE INTEREST RATE BUY DOWN 
                   AUTHORITY ON LOANS FOR HOUSING WITHIN HOUSING 
                   SHORTAGE AREAS AT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
       (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
     ``Military Housing Assistance Act of 1995''.
       (b) Mortgage Assistance Payment Authority of the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs.--(1) Chapter 37 of title 38, United 
     States Code, is amended by inserting after section 3707 the 
     following:
     ``Sec. 3708. Authority to buy down interest rates: pilot 
       program
       ``(a) In order to enable the purchase of housing in areas 
     where the supply of suitable military housing is inadequate, 
     the Secretary may conduct a pilot program under which the 
     Secretary may make periodic or lump sum assistance payments 
     on behalf of an eligible veteran for the purpose of buying 
     down the interest rate on a loan to that veteran that is 
     guaranteed under this chapter for a purpose described in 
     paragraph (1), (2), (3), (6), or (10) of section 3710(a).
       ``(b) An individual is an eligible veteran for the purposes 
     of this section if--
       ``(1) the individual is a veteran, as defined in section 
     3701(b)(4) of this title, or is on active Guard and Reserve 
     duty, as defined by section 101(d) of title 10;
       ``(2) the individual submits an application for a loan 
     guaranteed under this chapter within one year of an 
     assignment of the individual to duty at a military 
     installation in the United States designated by the Secretary 
     of Defense as a housing shortage area;
       ``(3) at the time the loan referred to in subsection (a) is 
     made, the individual is an enlisted member, warrant officer, 
     or an officer (other than a warrant officer) at a pay grade 
     of O-3 or below;
       ``(4) the individual has not previously used any of the 
     individual's entitlement to housing loan benefits under this 
     chapter; and
       ``(5) the individual receives comprehensive prepurchase 
     counseling from the Secretary (or the designee of the 
     Secretary) before making application for a loan guaranteed 
     under this chapter.
       ``(c) Loans with respect to which the Secretary may 
     exercise the buy down authority under subsection (a) shall--
       ``(1) provide for a buy down period of not more than three 
     years in duration;
       ``(2) specify the maximum and likely amounts of increases 
     in mortgage payments that the loans would require; and
       ``(3) be subject to such other terms and conditions as the 
     Secretary may prescribe by regulation.
       ``(d) The Secretary shall promulgate underwriting standards 
     for loans for which the interest rate assistance payments may 
     be made under subsection (a). Such standards shall be based 
     on the interest rate for the second year of the loan.
       ``(e) The Secretary or lender shall provide comprehensive 
     prepurchase counseling to eligible veterans explaining the 
     features of interest rate buy downs under subsection (a), 
     including a hypothetical payment schedule that displays the 
     increases in monthly payments to the mortgagor over the first 
     five years of the mortgage term. For the purposes of this 
     subsection, the Secretary may assign personnel to military 
     installations referred to in subsection (b)(2).
       ``(f) There is authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 
     annually to carry out this section.
       ``(g) The Secretary may not guarantee a loan under this 
     chapter after September 30, 1998, on which the Secretary is 
     obligated to make payments under this section.''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 37 of 
     title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
     the item relating to section 3707 to following new item:
``3708. Authority to buy down interest rates: pilot program.''.
       (c) Authority of Secretary of Defense.--
       (1) Reimbursement for buy down costs.--The Secretary of 
     Defense shall reimburse the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for 
     amounts paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
     mortgagees under section 3708 of title 38, United States 
     Code.
       (2) Designation of housing shortage areas.--For purposes of 
     section 3708 of title 38, United States Code, the Secretary 
     of Defense may designate as a housing shortage area a 
     military installation in the United States at which the 
     Secretary determines there is a shortage of suitable housing 
     to meet the military family needs of members of the Armed 
     Forces and the dependents of such members.
       (3) Report.--Not later than six months after September 30, 
     1998, the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress 
     regarding the effectiveness in providing housing to members 
     of the Armed Forces and their dependents through the 
     provisions of this subsection and section 3708 of title 38, 
     United States Code.
       (4) Earmark.--Of the amount provided in section 
     2405(a)(13)(B), $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1996 shall be 
     available to carry out this subsection.
       (5) Sunset.--This subsection shall not apply with respect 
     to housing loans guaranteed after September 30, 1998, for 
     which assistance payments are paid under section 3708 of 
     title 38, United States Code.
                Subtitle B--Base Closure and Realignment
     SEC. 2811. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER PROPERTY AT MILITARY 
                   INSTALLATIONS TO BE CLOSED TO PERSONS WHO 
                   CONSTRUCT OR PROVIDE MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING.
       (a) Base Closures Under 1988 Act.--Section 204 of the 
     Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and 
     Realignment Act (title II of Public Law 100-526; 10 U.S.C. 
     2687 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(e) Transfer Authority in Connection With Construction or 
     Provision of Military Family Housing.--(1) Subject to 
     paragraph (2), the Secretary may enter into an agreement to 
     transfer by deed real property or facilities located at an 
     installation closed or to be closed under this title with any 
     person who agrees, in exchange for the real property or 
     facilities, to transfer to the Secretary housing units that 
     are constructed or provided by the person and located at or 
     near a military installation at which there is a shortage of 
     suitable housing to meet the requirements of members of the 
     Armed Forces and their dependents. The Secretary may not 
     select real property for transfer under this paragraph if the 
     property is identified in the redevelopment plan for the 
     installation as items essential to the reuse or redevelopment 
     of the installation.
       ``(2) A transfer of real property or facilities may be made 
     under paragraph (1) only if--
       ``(A) the fair market value of the housing units to be 
     received by the Secretary in exchange for the property or 
     facilities to be transferred is equal to or greater than the 
     fair market value of such property or facilities, as 
     determined by the Secretary; or
       ``(B) the recipient of the property or facilities agrees to 
     pay to the Secretary the difference between the fair market 
     values if the fair market value of the housing units is lower 
     than the fair market value of the property or facilities to 
     be transferred.
       ``(3) Notwithstanding section 207(a)(7), the Secretary 
     shall deposit funds received under paragraph (2)(B) in the 
     Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund 
     established under section 2873(a) of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       ``(4) The Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress a report describing each agreement 
     proposed to be entered into under paragraph (1), including 
     the consideration to be received by the United States under 
     the agreement. The Secretary may not enter into the agreement 
     until the end of the 21-day period beginning on the date the 
     appropriate committees of Congress receive the report 
     regarding the agreement.
       ``(5) The Secretary may require any additional terms and 
     conditions in connection with an agreement authorized by this 
     subsection as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
     the interests of the United States.''.
       (b) Base Closures Under 1990 Act.--Section 2905 of the 
     Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of 
     title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(f) Transfer Authority in Connection With Construction or 
     Provision of Military Family Housing.--(1) Subject to 
     paragraph (2), the Secretary may enter into an agreement to 
     transfer by deed real property or facilities located at an 
     installation closed or to be closed under this part with any 
     person who agrees, in exchange for the real property or 
     facilities, to transfer to the Secretary housing units that 
     are constructed or provided by the person and located at or 
     near a military installation at which there is a shortage of 
     suitable housing to meet the requirements of members of the 
     Armed Forces and their dependents. The Secretary may not 
     select real property for transfer under this paragraph if the 
     property is identified in the redevelopment plan for the 
     installation as items essential to the reuse or redevelopment 
     of the installation.
       ``(2) A transfer of real property or facilities may be made 
     under paragraph (1) only if--
       ``(A) the fair market value of the housing units to be 
     received by the Secretary in exchange for the property or 
     facilities to be transferred is equal to or greater than the 
     fair market value of such property or facilities, as 
     determined by the Secretary; or
       ``(B) the recipient of the property or facilities agrees to 
     pay to the Secretary the difference between the fair market 
     values if the fair market value of the housing units is lower 
     than the fair market value of the property or facilities to 
     be transferred.
       ``(3) Notwithstanding section 2906(a)(2), the Secretary 
     shall deposit funds received under paragraph (2)(B) in the 
     Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund 
     established [[Page H5856]] under section 2873(a) of title 10, 
     United States Code.
       ``(4) The Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress a report describing each agreement 
     proposed to be entered into under paragraph (1), including 
     the consideration to be received by the United States under 
     the agreement. The Secretary may not enter into the agreement 
     until the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date the 
     appropriate committees of Congress receive the report 
     regarding the agreement.
       ``(5) The Secretary may require any additional terms and 
     conditions in connection with an agreement authorized by this 
     subsection as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
     the interests of the United States.''.
       (c) Regulations.--Not later than nine months after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
     prescribe any regulations necessary to carry out subsection 
     (e) of section 204 of the Defense Authorization Amendments 
     and Base Closure and Realignment Act (title II of Public Law 
     100-526; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note), as added by subsection (a), 
     and subsection (f) of section 2905 of the Defense Base 
     Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of 
     Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note), as added by 
     subsection (b).
     SEC. 2812. DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS FROM LEASES OF PROPERTY 
                   LOCATED AT INSTALLATIONS BEING CLOSED OR 
                   REALIGNED.
       (a) Exception to Existing Requirements.--Section 2667(d) of 
     title 10, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)(A)(ii), by inserting ``or (5)'' after 
     ``paragraph (4)''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(5) Money rentals received by the United States from a 
     lease under subsection (f) shall be deposited into the 
     relevant account established under section 207(a) of the 
     Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and 
     Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) or 
     section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment 
     Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
     U.S.C. 2687 note).''.
       (b) Corresponding Amendments to Base Closure Laws.--(1) 
     Section 207(a) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and 
     Base Closure and Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526; 10 
     U.S.C. 2687 note) is amended--
       (A) in paragraph (2)--
       (i) by striking out ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (B);
       (ii) by striking out the period at the end of subparagraph 
     (C) and inserting in lieu thereof ``; and''; and
       (iii) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(D) proceeds from leases of property under section 
     2667(f) of title 10, United States Code, at a military 
     installation to be closed or realigned under this title.''; 
     and
       (B) in paragraph (7), by striking out ``transfer or 
     disposal'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``lease, transfer, 
     or disposal''.
       (2) Section 2906(a)(2) of the Defense Base Closure and 
     Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 
     101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2867 note) is amended--
       (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking out ``transfer or 
     disposal'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``lease, transfer, 
     or disposal''; and
       (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking out ``transfer or 
     disposal'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``lease, transfer, 
     or disposal''.
     SEC. 2813. AGREEMENTS FOR CERTAIN SERVICES AT INSTALLATIONS 
                   BEING CLOSED.
       (a) Closures Under 1988 Act.--Section 204(b)(8) of the 
     Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and 
     Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) is 
     amended by striking out subparagraph (A) and inserting in 
     lieu thereof the following new subparagraph:
       ``(A) Subject to subparagraph (C), the Secretary may enter 
     into agreements (including contracts, cooperative agreements, 
     or other arrangements for reimbursement) with local 
     governments for the provision of police or security services, 
     fire protection services, airfield operation services, or 
     other community services by such governments at military 
     installations to be closed under this title if the Secretary 
     determines that the provision of such services under such an 
     agreement is in the best interests of the Department of 
     Defense.''.
       (b) Closures Under 1990 Act.--Section 2905(b)(8) of the 
     Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of 
     title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2867 note) is 
     amended by striking out subparagraph (A) and inserting in 
     lieu thereof the following new subparagraph:
       ``(A) Subject to subparagraph (C), the Secretary may enter 
     into agreements (including contracts, cooperative agreements, 
     or other arrangements for reimbursement) with local 
     governments for the provision of police or security services, 
     fire protection services, airfield operation services, or 
     other community services by such governments at military 
     installations to be closed under this part if the Secretary 
     determines that the provision of such services under such an 
     agreement is in the best interests of the Department of 
     Defense.''.
                 Subtitle C--Land Conveyances Generally
     SEC. 2821. TRANSFER OF JURISDICTION, FORT SAM HOUSTON, TEXAS.
       (a) Transfer of Land for National Cemetery.--The Secretary 
     of the Army may transfer, without reimbursement, to the 
     administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs a parcel of real property (including any improvements 
     thereon) consisting of approximately 53 acres and comprising 
     a portion of Fort Sam Houston, Texas.
       (b) Use of Land.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     use the real property transferred under subsection (a) as a 
     national cemetery under chapter 24 of title 38, United States 
     Code.
       (c) Return of Unused Land.--If the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs determines that any portion of the real property 
     transferred under subsection (a) is not needed for use as a 
     national cemetery, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     return such portion to the administrative jurisdiction of the 
     Secretary of the Army.
       (d) Legal Description.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be transferred under this 
     section shall be determined by surveys that are satisfactory 
     to the Secretary of the Army. The cost of such surveys shall 
     be borne by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the 
     Army may require such additional terms and conditions in 
     connection with the transfer under this section as the 
     Secretary of the Army considers appropriate to protect the 
     interests of the United States.
     SEC. 2822. LAND ACQUISITION OR EXCHANGE, SHAW AIR FORCE BASE, 
                   SUMTER, SOUTH CAROLINA.
       (a) Land Acquisition.--By means of an exchange of property, 
     acceptance as a gift, or other means that does not require 
     the use of appropriated funds, the Secretary of the Air Force 
     may acquire all right, title, and interest in and to a parcel 
     of real property (together with any improvements thereon) 
     consisting of approximately 1,100 acres and located adjacent 
     to the eastern end of Shaw Air Force Base, South Carolina, 
     and extending to Stamey Livestock Road in Sumter County, 
     South Carolina.
       (b) Land Exchange Authorized.--For purposes of acquiring 
     the real property described in subsection (a), the Secretary 
     may participate in a land exchange and convey all right, 
     title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel 
     of real property in the possession of the Air Force if--
       (1) the Secretary determines that the land exchange is in 
     the best interests of the Air Force; and
       (2) the fair market value of the Air Force parcel to be 
     conveyed does not exceed the fair market value of the parcel 
     to be acquired.
       (c) Determinations of Fair Market Value.--The Secretary 
     shall determine the fair market value of the parcels of real 
     property to be conveyed pursuant to subsections (a) and (b). 
     Such determinations shall be final.
       (d) Descriptions of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     descriptions of the parcels of real property to be conveyed 
     pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) shall be determined by 
     surveys that are satisfactory to the Secretary.
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the acquisition under subsection (a) or conveyance under 
     subsection (b) as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
     protect the interests of the United States.
       (f) Reversion of Gift Conveyance.--If the Secretary 
     acquires the real property described in subsection (a) by way 
     of gift, the Secretary may accept in the deed of conveyance 
     terms or conditions that require that the land be reconveyed 
     to the donor, or the heirs of the donor, if Shaw Air Force 
     Base ceases operations and is closed.
     SEC. 2823. TRANSFER OF CERTAIN REAL PROPERTY AT NAVAL WEAPONS 
                   INDUSTRIAL RESERVE PLANT, CALVERTON, NEW YORK, 
                   FOR USE AS NATIONAL CEMETERY.
       (a) Transfer Authorized.--Notwithstanding section 2854 of 
     the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
     1993 (division B of Public Law 102-484; 106 Stat. 2626), the 
     Secretary of the Navy may transfer, without reimbursement, to 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs a parcel of real property 
     consisting of approximately 150 acres located adjacent to the 
     Calverton National Cemetery, Calverton, New York, and 
     comprising a portion of the buffer zone of the Naval Weapons 
     Industrial Reserve Plant, Calverton.
       (b) Use of Property.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     shall use the real property transferred under subsection (a) 
     as an addition to the Calverton National Cemetery and 
     administer such real property pursuant to chapter 24 of title 
     38, United States Code.
       (c) Surveys.--The cost of any surveys necessary for the 
     transfer of jurisdiction of the real property described in 
     subsection (a) from the Secretary of the Navy to the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall be borne by the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs.
     SEC. 2824. LAND CONVEYANCE, FORT ORD, CALIFORNIA.
       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     convey to the City of Seaside, California (in this section 
     referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and interest 
     of the United States in and to a parcel of real property 
     (including improvements thereon) consisting of approximately 
     477 acres located in Monterey County, California, and 
     comprising a portion of the former Fort Ord Military Complex. 
     The real property to be conveyed to the City includes the two 
     Fort Ord Golf Courses, Black Horse and Bayonet, and the Hayes 
     Housing Facilities.
       (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance of 
     the real property and improvements under subsection (a), the 
     City shall pay to the United States an amount equal to the 
     fair market value of the property to be conveyed, as 
     determined by the Secretary under such terms and conditions 
     as are determined to be fair and equitable to both parties.
       (c) Use and Deposit of Proceeds.--(1) From the funds paid 
     by the City under subsection (b), the Secretary shall deposit 
     in the Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Fund Account of the 
     Department of the Army an amount equal to the portion of such 
     funds corresponding to the fair market value of the two Fort 
     Ord Golf Courses [[Page H5857]] conveyed under subsection 
     (a), as established under subsection (b).
       (2) The Secretary shall deposit the balance of the funds 
     paid by the City under subsection (b), after deducting the 
     amount deposited under paragraph (1), in the Department of 
     Defense Base Closure Account 1990.
       (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property (including improvements 
     thereon) to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
     determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary and the 
     City. The cost of the survey shall be borne by the City.
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under this section as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.
     SEC. 2825. LAND CONVEYANCE, INDIANA ARMY AMMUNITION PLANT, 
                   CHARLESTOWN, INDIANA.
       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     convey, without consideration, to the State of Indiana (in 
     this section referred to as the ``State''), all right, title, 
     and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real 
     property, including any improvements thereon, that consists 
     of approximately 1125 acres at the inactivated Indiana Army 
     Ammunition Plant in Charlestown, Indiana, and is the subject 
     of a 25-year lease between the Secretary and the State.
       (b) Condition of Conveyance.--The conveyance authorized 
     under subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that 
     the State use the conveyed property for recreational 
     purposes.
       (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory 
     to the Secretary. The cost of such survey shall be borne by 
     the State.
       (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.
     SEC. 2826. LAND CONVEYANCE, NAVAL AIR STATION, PENSACOLA, 
                   FLORIDA.
       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Navy may 
     convey to West Florida Developers, Inc. (in this section 
     referred to as ``WFD''), all right, title, and interest of 
     the United States in and to a parcel of unimproved real 
     property consisting of approximately 135 acres at Naval Air 
     Station, Pensacola, Florida.
       (b) Consideration.--(1) As consideration for the conveyance 
     under subsection (a), WFD shall agree to restrict the use of 
     all lands located within the Air Installation Compatible Use 
     Zones of Naval Air Station Pensacola and owned by WFD at the 
     time of the conveyance under subsection (a) in such manner as 
     specified by the Secretary. The lands subject to such 
     restriction shall total at least 300 acres.
       (2) If the fair market value of the property conveyed under 
     subsection (a) is more than the fair market value of the 
     restriction on usage under paragraph (1), WFD shall pay to 
     the United States an amount equal to the difference between 
     the fair market values.
       (c) Determination of Fair Market Value.--The Secretary 
     shall determine the fair market value of the property to be 
     conveyed under subsection (a) and the fair market value of 
     the restriction on usage under subsection (b)(1). Such 
     determination shall be final.
       (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory 
     to the Secretary. The cost of such survey shall be borne by 
     WFD.
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance authorized by subsection (a) as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of 
     the United States.
     SEC. 2827. LAND CONVEYANCE, AVON PARK AIR FORCE RANGE, 
                   SEBRING, FLORIDA.
       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
     may convey, without consideration, to Highlands County, 
     Florida (in this section referred to as the ``County''), all 
     right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a 
     parcel of real property (including any improvements thereon) 
     located within the boundaries of the Avon Park Air Force 
     Range near Sebring, Florida, which has previously served as 
     the location of a support complex and recreational facilities 
     for the Avon Park Air Force Range.
       (b) Conditions of Conveyance.--The conveyance authorized 
     under subsection (a) shall be subject to the conditions that 
     the County--
       (1) directly or through an agreement with an appropriate 
     public or private entity, use the conveyed property, 
     including the support complex and recreational facilities, 
     for operation of a juvenile or other correctional facility; 
     and
       (2) enter into an agreement with the Secretary to reconvey 
     the property to the United States if the Secretary determines 
     that the conveyed property is necessary to accomplish the 
     military mission of the Avon Park Air Force Range.
       (c) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary determines at 
     any time that the property conveyed under subsection (a) is 
     not being used in accordance with subsection (b), all right, 
     title, and interest in the property shall revert to the 
     United States, and the United States shall have the right of 
     immediate entry onto the property.
       (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory 
     to the Secretary. The cost of such survey shall be borne by 
     the County.
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under this section as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.
     SEC. 2828. LAND CONVEYANCE, PARKS RESERVE FORCES TRAINING 
                   AREA, DUBLIN, CALIFORNIA.
       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--(1) Except as provided in 
     paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Army may convey to the 
     County of Alameda, California (in this section referred to as 
     the ``County''), all right, title, and interest of the United 
     States in and to a parcel of real property consisting of 
     approximately 31 acres, together with improvements thereon, 
     located at Parks Reserve Forces Training Area, Dublin, 
     California.
       (2) The conveyance authorized by this section shall not 
     include any oil, gas, or mineral interest of the United 
     States in the real property to be conveyed.
       (b) Consideration.--(1) As consideration for the conveyance 
     under subsection (a)(1), the County shall provide the Army 
     with services at the portion of Parks Reserve Forces Training 
     Area retained by the Army--
       (A) to relocate the main gate of the retained Army Training 
     Area from Dougherty Road to Dublin Boulevard across from the 
     Bay Area Rapid Transit District East Dublin station, 
     including the closure of the existing main gate on Dougherty 
     Road, construction of a security facility, and construction 
     of a roadway from the new entrance to Fifth Street;
       (B) to fence and landscape the southern boundary of the 
     retained Army Training Area installation located northerly of 
     Dublin Boulevard;
       (C) to fence and landscape the eastern boundary of the 
     retained Army Training Area from Dublin Boulevard to Gleason 
     Drive;
       (D) to resurface roadways within the retained Army Training 
     Area;
       (E) to provide such other services in connection with the 
     retained Army Training Area, including relocation or 
     reconstruction of water lines, relocation or reconstruction 
     of sewer lines, construction of drainage improvements, and 
     construction of buildings, as the Secretary and the County 
     may determine to be appropriate; and
       (F) to provide for and fund any environmental mitigation 
     that is necessary as a result of a change in use of the 
     conveyed property by the County.
       (2) The detailed specifications for the services to be 
     provided under paragraph (1) may be determined and approved 
     on behalf of the Secretary by the Commander of Parks Reserve 
     Forces Training Area. The preparation costs of such 
     specifications shall be borne by the County.
       (3) The value of improvements and services received by the 
     United States from the County under paragraph (1) must be 
     equal to or exceed the appraised value of the real property 
     to be conveyed under subsection (a)(1). The appraisal of the 
     value of the property shall be subject to Government review 
     and approval.
       (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a)(1) shall be determined by a survey 
     satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of such survey shall 
     be borne by the County.
       (d) Time for Transfer of Title.--The transfer of title to 
     the County under subsection (a)(1) may be executed by the 
     Secretary only upon the satisfactory guarantee by the County 
     of completion of the services to be provided under subsection 
     (b).
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a)(1) as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.
     SEC. 2829. LAND CONVEYANCE, HOLSTON ARMY AMMUNITION PLANT, 
                   MOUNT CARMEL, TENNESSEE.
       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     convey, without reimbursement, to the City of Mount Carmel, 
     Tennessee (in this section referred to as the ``City''), all 
     right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a 
     parcel of real property consisting of approximately 6.5 
     acres, together with any improvements thereon, located at 
     Holston Army Ammunition Plant, Tennessee. The property is 
     located adjacent to the Mount Carmel Cemetery and is intended 
     for expansion of the cemetery.
       (b) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory 
     to the Secretary. The cost of such survey shall be borne by 
     the City.
       (c) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.
     SEC. 2830. LAND CONVEYANCE, NAVAL WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL RESERVE 
                   PLANT, MCGREGOR, TEXAS.
       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Navy may 
     convey, without consideration, to the City of McGregor, Texas 
     (in this section referred to as the ``City''), all right, 
     title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel 
     of real property, including any improvements thereon, 
     containing the Naval Weapons Industrial Reserve Plant in 
     McGregor, Texas. After screening the facilities, equipment, 
     and fixtures (including special tooling and special test 
     equipment) located on the parcel for other uses within the 
     Department of the Navy, the Secretary may include in the 
     conveyance remaining facilities, equipment, and fixtures if 
     the Secretary determines that manufacturing activities 
     requiring [[Page H5858]] the use of such facilities, 
     equipment, and fixtures are likely to continue or be 
     reinstated on the parcel after conveyance.
       (b) Lease Authority.--Until such time as the real property 
     described in subsection (a) is conveyed by deed, the 
     Secretary may lease the property, along with improvements 
     thereon, to the City in exchange for security services, fire 
     protection, and maintenance provided by the City for the 
     property.
       (c) Condition of Conveyance.--The conveyance authorized 
     under subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that 
     the City, directly or through an agreement with a public or 
     private entity, use the conveyed property (or offer the 
     conveyed property for use) for economic redevelopment to 
     replace all or a part of the economic activity being lost at 
     the parcel.
       (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory 
     to the Secretary. The cost of such survey shall be borne by 
     the City.
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) or a lease under 
     subsection (b) as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
     protect the interests of the United States.
     SEC. 2831. TRANSFER OF JURISDICTION AND LAND CONVEYANCE, FORT 
                   DEVENS MILITARY RESERVATION, MASSACHUSETTS.
       (a) Transfer of Land for Wildlife Refuge.--Subject to 
     subsection (b), the Secretary of the Army shall transfer, 
     without reimbursement, to the administrative jurisdiction of 
     the Secretary of the Interior that portion of Fort Devens 
     Military Reservation in the State of Massachusetts that is 
     situated south of Massachusetts State Route 2, for inclusion 
     in the Oxbow National Wildlife Refuge. The transfer shall be 
     made as soon as possible after the date on which the property 
     is determined to be excess to the needs of the Department of 
     Defense.
       (b) Land Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army 
     shall convey to the Town of Lancaster, Massachusetts (in this 
     section referred to as the ``Town''), all right, title, and 
     interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real 
     property consisting of approximately 100 acres of the parcel 
     available for transfer under subsection (a) and located 
     adjacent to Massachusetts State Highway 70.
       (c) Legal Description.--(1) The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be transferred under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by surveys that are 
     mutually satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army and the 
     Secretary of the Interior. The cost of such surveys shall be 
     borne by the Secretary of the Interior.
       (2) The exact acreage and legal description of the real 
     property to be conveyed under subsection (b) shall be 
     determined by surveys that are mutually satisfactory to the 
     Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Interior, and the 
     Board of Selectman of the Town. The cost of such surveys 
     shall be borne by the Town.
       (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the 
     Army may require such additional terms and conditions in 
     connection with the transfer and conveyance under this 
     section as the Secretary of the Army considers appropriate to 
     protect the interests of the United States.
     SEC. 2832. LAND CONVEYANCE, ELMENDORF AIR FORCE BASE, ALASKA.
       (a) Sale to Private Person Authorized.--(1) The Secretary 
     of the Air Force may sell to a private person all right, 
     title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel 
     of real property consisting of approximately 31.69 acres that 
     is located at Elmendorf Air Force Base, Anchorage, Alaska, 
     and identified in land lease W-95-507-ENG-58.
       (2) The Secretary may select as purchaser of the real 
     property such private person as the Secretary, in the sole 
     exercise of the Secretary's discretion, considers 
     appropriate. The conveyance shall be subject to the condition 
     that the purchaser agree to provide appropriate maintenance 
     for the apartment complex located on the property to be 
     conveyed and used by members of the Armed Forces stationed at 
     Elmendorf Air Force Base and their dependents.
       (b) Consideration.--In consideration for the conveyance 
     under subsection (a), the purchaser shall pay to the United 
     States an amount equal to the fair market value of the real 
     property to be conveyed, as determined by an appraisal 
     satisfactory to the Secretary. In determining the fair market 
     value of the real property, the Secretary shall consider the 
     property as encumbered by land lease W-95-507-ENG-58, with an 
     expiration date of June 13, 2024.
       (c) Deposit of Proceeds.--The Secretary shall deposit the 
     amount received from the purchaser under subsection (b) in 
     the special account established under section 204(h)(2) of 
     the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 
     (40 U.S.C. 585(h)(2)).
       (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory 
     to the Secretary. The cost of such survey shall be borne by 
     the purchaser.
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under this section as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.
     SEC. 2833. LAND CONVEYANCE ALTERNATIVE TO EXISTING LEASE 
                   AUTHORITY, NAVAL SUPPLY CENTER, OAKLAND, 
                   CALIFORNIA.
       Section 2834(b) of the Military Construction Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (division B of Public Law 102-484; 
     106 Stat. 2614), as amended by section 2833 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (division 
     B of Public Law 103-160) and section 2821 of the Military 
     Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (division 
     B of Public Law 103-337), is further amended by adding at the 
     end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(4) In lieu of entering into a lease under paragraph (1), 
     or in place of an existing lease under such paragraph, the 
     Secretary may convey, without consideration, the property 
     described in such paragraph to the City of Oakland, 
     California, the Port of Oakland, California, or the City of 
     Alameda, California, under such terms and conditions as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate.
       ``(5) The exact acreage and legal description of any 
     property conveyed under paragraph (4) shall be determined by 
     a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of each 
     survey shall be borne by the recipient of the property.''.
            Subtitle D--Land Conveyances Involving Utilities
     SEC. 2841. CONVEYANCE OF RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY, FORT 
                   DIX, NEW JERSEY.
       (a) Authority to Convey.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     convey to Burlington County, New Jersey (in this section 
     referred to as the ``County''), all right, title, and 
     interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real 
     property at Fort Dix, New Jersey, consisting of approximately 
     two acres and containing a resource recovery facility, known 
     as the Fort Dix resource recovery facility.
       (b) Related Easements.--The Secretary may grant to the 
     County any easement that is necessary for access to and 
     operation of the resource recovery facility conveyed under 
     subsection (a).
       (c) Conditions on Conveyance.--The conveyance of the 
     resource recovery facility authorized by subsection (a) is 
     subject to the following conditions:
       (1) That the County accept the resource recovery facility 
     in its existing condition at the time of conveyance.
       (2) That the County provide refuse and steam service to 
     Fort Dix, New Jersey, at the rate established by the 
     appropriate Federal or State regulatory authority.
       (3) That the County comply with all applicable 
     environmental laws and regulations relating to the resource 
     recovery facility, including any permit or license 
     requirements.
       (4) That the County assume full responsibility for 
     ownership, operation, maintenance, repair, and all regulatory 
     compliance requirements for the resource recovery facility.
       (d) Condition on Expansion.--The conveyance of the resource 
     recovery facility under subsection (a) shall also be subject 
     to the condition that the County may not expand the resource 
     recovery facility without prior approval by the Secretary.
       (e) Environmental Compliance.--The County shall be 
     responsible for owning, operating, and upgrading the resource 
     recovery facility in accordance with all applicable Federal, 
     State, and municipal laws and regulations promulgated 
     thereunder.
       (f) Description of the Property.--The exact acreage and 
     legal description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a), and of any easements to be granted under 
     subsection (b), shall be determined by a survey satisfactory 
     to the Secretary. The cost of such survey shall be borne by 
     the County.
       (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) and the grant of any 
     easement under subsection (b) as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
     SEC. 2842. CONVEYANCE OF WATER AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT 
                   PLANTS, FORT GORDON, GEORGIA.
       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     convey to the city of Augusta, Georgia (in this section 
     referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and interest 
     of the United States to several parcels of real property 
     located at Fort Gordon, Georgia, and consisting of 
     approximately seven acres each. The parcels are improved with 
     a water filtration plant, water distribution system with 
     storage tanks, sewage treatment plant, and sewage collection 
     system.
       (b) Related Easements.--The Secretary may grant to the City 
     any easement that is necessary for access to the real 
     property conveyed under subsection (a) and operation of the 
     conveyed facilities.
       (c) Conditions on Conveyance.--The conveyance authorized by 
     subsection (a) is subject to the following conditions:
       (1) That the City accept the water and wastewater treatment 
     plants and distribution and collection systems in their 
     existing condition at the time of conveyance.
       (2) That the City provide water and sewer service to Fort 
     Gordon, Georgia, at a rate established by the appropriate 
     Federal or State regulatory authority.
       (3) That the City comply with all applicable environmental 
     laws and regulations regarding the real property conveyed 
     under subsection (a), including any permit or license 
     requirements.
       (4) That the City assume full responsibility for ownership, 
     operation, maintenance, repair, and all regulatory compliance 
     requirements for the water and wastewater treatment plants 
     and distribution and collection systems.
       (d) Condition on Expansion.--The conveyance under 
     subsection (a) shall also be subject to the condition that 
     the City may not expand the water and wastewater treatment 
     plants and distribution and collection systems without prior 
     approval by the Secretary.
       (e) Environmental Compliance.--The City shall be 
     responsible for owning, operating, and upgrading the water 
     and wastewater treatment [[Page H5859]] plants and 
     distribution and collection systems in accordance with all 
     applicable Federal, State, and municipal laws and regulations 
     promulgated thereunder.
       (f) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of the real property to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a), and of any easements granted under subsection 
     (b), shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
     Secretary. The cost of such survey shall be borne by the 
     City.
       (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) and the grant of any 
     easement under subsection (b) as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
     SEC. 2843. CONVEYANCE OF ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM, FORT 
                   IRWIN, CALIFORNIA.
       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may 
     convey to the Southern California Edison Company, California 
     (in this section referred to as the ``Company''), all right, 
     title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
     electrical distribution system located at Fort Irwin, 
     California.
       (b) Description of System and Conveyance.--The electrical 
     distribution system authorized to be conveyed under 
     subsection (a) consists of approximately 115 miles of 
     electrical distribution lines, including poles, switches, 
     reclosers, transformers, regulators, switchgears, and service 
     lines. The conveyance includes the equipment, fixtures, 
     structures, and other improvements the Federal Government 
     utilizes to provide electrical services at Fort Irwin. The 
     conveyance shall not include any real property.
       (c) Related Easements.--The Secretary may grant to the 
     Company any easement that is necessary for access to and 
     operation of the electrical distribution system conveyed 
     under subsection (a).
       (d) Conditions on Conveyance.--The conveyance authorized by 
     subsection (a) is subject to the following conditions:
       (1) That the Company accept the electrical distribution 
     system in its existing condition at the time of conveyance.
       (2) That the Company provide electrical service to Fort 
     Irwin, California, at a rate established by the appropriate 
     Federal or State regulatory authority.
       (3) That the Company comply with all applicable 
     environmental laws and regulations regarding the electrical 
     distribution system, including any permit or license 
     requirements.
       (4) That the Company assume full responsibility for 
     ownership, operation, maintenance, repair, and all regulatory 
     compliance requirements for the electrical distribution 
     system.
       (e) Condition on Expansion.--The conveyance under 
     subsection (a) shall also be subject to the condition that 
     the Company may not expand the electrical distribution system 
     without prior approval by the Secretary.
       (f) Environmental Compliance.--The Company shall be 
     responsible for owning, operating, and upgrading the 
     electrical distribution system in accordance with all 
     applicable Federal, State, and municipal laws and regulations 
     promulgated thereunder.
       (g) Description of Easement.--The exact acreage and legal 
     description of any easement granted under subsection (c) 
     shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
     Secretary. The cost of such survey shall be borne by the 
     Company.
       (h) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) and the grant of any 
     easement under subsection (c) as the Secretary considers 
     appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters
     SEC. 2851. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO SELL ELECTRICITY.
       (a) Inclusion of Additional Energy Production Facilities.--
     Subsection (a) of section 2483 of title 10, United States 
     Code, is amended by striking out ``alternate energy and 
     cogeneration type production facilities'' in the first 
     sentence and inserting in lieu thereof ``energy production 
     facilities''.
       (b) Clerical Amendments.--(1) The heading of such section 
     is amended to read as follows:
     ``Sec. 2483. Special sale authority regarding electricity''.
       (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 147 
     of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking out 
     the item relating to section 2483 and inserting in lieu 
     thereof the following new item:
``2483. Special sale authority regarding electricity.''.
     SEC. 2852. AUTHORITY FOR MISSISSIPPI STATE PORT AUTHORITY TO 
                   USE NAVY PROPERTY AT NAVAL CONSTRUCTION 
                   BATTALION CENTER, GULFPORT, MISSISSIPPI.
       (a) Joint Use Agreement Authorized.--The Secretary of the 
     Navy may enter into an agreement with the Port Authority of 
     the State of Mississippi (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Port Authority''), under which the Port Authority may use 
     real property comprising up to 50 acres located at the Naval 
     Construction Battalion Center, Gulfport, Mississippi (in this 
     section referred to as the ``Center'').
       (b) Term of Agreement.--The agreement authorized under 
     subsection (a) may be for an initial period of not more than 
     15 years. Under the agreement, the Secretary shall provide 
     the Port Authority with an option to extend the agreement for 
     at least three additional periods of five years each.
       (c) Conditions on Use.--The agreement authorized under 
     subsection (a) shall require the Port Authority--
       (1) to suspend operations under the agreement in the event 
     Navy contingency operations are conducted at the Center; and
       (2) to use the property covered by the agreement in a 
     manner consistent with Navy operations conducted at the 
     Center.
       (d) Consideration.--(1) As consideration for the use of the 
     property covered by the agreement under subsection (a), the 
     Port Authority shall pay to the Navy an amount equal to the 
     fair market rental value of the property, as determined by 
     the Secretary taking into consideration the Port Authority's 
     use of the property.
       (2) The Secretary may include a provision in the agreement 
     requiring the Port Authority--
       (A) to pay the Navy an amount (as determined by the 
     Secretary) to cover the costs of replacing at the Center any 
     facilities vacated by the Navy on account of the agreement or 
     to construct suitable replacement facilities for the Navy; 
     and
       (B) to pay the Navy an amount (as determined by the 
     Secretary) for the costs of relocating Navy operations from 
     the vacated facilities to the replacement facilities.
       (e) Congressional Notification.--The Secretary may not 
     enter into the agreement authorized by subsection (a) until 
     the end of the 21-day period beginning on the date on which 
     the Secretary submits to Congress a report containing an 
     explanation of the terms of the proposed agreement and a 
     description of the consideration that the Secretary expects 
     to receive under the agreement.
       (f) Use of Payment.--(1) In such amounts as are provided in 
     advance in appropriation Acts, the Secretary may use amounts 
     paid under subsection (d)(1) to pay for general supervision, 
     administration, and overhead expenses and for improvement, 
     maintenance, repair, construction, or restoration of the 
     roads, railways, and facilities serving the Center.
       (2) In such amounts as are provided in advance in 
     appropriation Acts, the Secretary may use amounts paid under 
     subsection (d)(2) to pay for constructing new facilities, or 
     making modifications to existing facilities, that are 
     necessary to replace facilities vacated by the Navy on 
     account of the agreement under subsection (a) and for 
     relocating operations of the Navy from the vacated facilities 
     to replacement facilities.
       (g) Construction by Port Authority.--The Secretary may 
     authorize the Port Authority to demolish existing facilities 
     located on the property covered by the agreement under 
     subsection (a) and, consistent with the restriction specified 
     in subsection (c)(2), construct new facilities on the 
     property for joint use by the Port Authority and the Navy.
       (h) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the agreement authorized under subsection (a) as the 
     Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of 
     the United States.
     SEC. 2853. PROHIBITION ON JOINT CIVIL AVIATION USE OF NAVAL 
                   AIR STATION MIRAMAR, CALIFORNIA.
       The Secretary of the Navy may not enter into any agreement 
     that would provide for or permit civil aircraft to regularly 
     use Naval Air Station Miramar, California.
     SEC. 2854. REPORT REGARDING ARMY WATER CRAFT SUPPORT 
                   FACILITIES AND ACTIVITIES.
       Not later than February 15, 1996, the Secretary of the Army 
     shall submit to Congress a report describing--
       (1) the location, assets, and mission of each Army 
     facility, active or reserve component, that supports water 
     transportation operations;
       (2) an infrastructure inventory and utilization rate of 
     each Army facility supporting water transportation 
     operations;
       (3) options for consolidating these operations to reduce 
     overhead; and
       (4) actions that can be taken to affirmatively respond to 
     requests from the residents of Marcus Hook, Pennsylvania, to 
     close the Army Reserve facility located in Marcus Hook and 
     make the facility available for use by the community.
 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
         Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations
     SEC. 3101. WEAPONS ACTIVITIES.
       (a) Stockpile Stewardship.--Subject to subsection (d), 
     funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 1996 for stockpile 
     stewardship in carrying out weapons activities necessary for 
     national security programs in the amount of $3,610,914,000, 
     to be allocated as follows:
       (1) For core stockpile stewardship, $1,189,708,000 for 
     fiscal year 1996, to be allocated as follows:
       (A) For operation and maintenance, $1,098,403,000.
       (B) For plant projects (including maintenance, restoration, 
     planning, construction, acquisition, modification of 
     facilities, and the continuation of projects authorized in 
     prior years, and land acquisition related thereto), 
     $96,305,000, to be allocated as follows:
       Project 96-D-102, stockpile stewardship facilities 
     revitalization, Phase VI, various locations, $2,520,000.
       Project 96-D-103, ATLAS, Los Alamos National Laboratory, 
     Los Alamos, New Mexico, $8,400,000.
       Project 96-D-104, processing and environmental technology 
     laboratory (PETL), Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, 
     New Mexico, $1,800,000.
       Project 96-D-105, contained firing facility addition, 
     Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, 
     California, $6,600,000. [[Page H5860]] 
       Project 95-D-102, Chemical and Metallurgy Research Building 
     upgrades project, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, 
     New Mexico, $9,940,000.
       Project 94-D-102, nuclear weapons research, development, 
     and testing facilities revitalization, Phase V, various 
     locations, $12,200,000.
       Project 93-D-102, Nevada support facility, North Las Vegas, 
     Nevada, $15,650,000.
       Project 90-D-102, nuclear weapons research, development, 
     and testing facilities revitalization, Phase III, various 
     locations, $6,200,000.
       Project 88-D-106, nuclear weapons research, development, 
     and testing facilities revitalization, Phase II, various 
     locations, $27,995,000.
       (2) For inertial fusion, $240,667,000, to be allocated as 
     follows:
       (A) For operation and maintenance, $203,267,000.
       (B) For plant projects (including maintenance, restoration, 
     planning, construction, acquisition, modification of 
     facilities, and the continuation of projects authorized in 
     prior years, and land acquisition related thereto), 
     $37,400,000 to be allocated as follows:
       Project 96-D-111, national ignition facility, TBD, 
     $37,400,000.
       (3) For technology transfer, $25,000,000.
       (4) For Marshall Islands, $6,800,000.
       (b) Stockpile Management.--Subject to subsection (d), funds 
     are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
     Energy for fiscal year 1996 for stockpile management in 
     carrying out weapons activities necessary for national 
     security programs in the amount of $2,142,083,000, to be 
     allocated as follows:
       (1) For operation and maintenance, $2,028,458,000.
       (2) For plant projects (including maintenance, restoration, 
     planning, construction, acquisition, modification of 
     facilities, and the continuation of projects authorized in 
     prior years, and land acquisition related thereto), 
     $113,625,000, to be allocated as follows:
       Project 96-D-122, sewage treatment quality upgrade (STQU), 
     Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas, $600,000.
       Project 96-D-123, retrofit HVAC and chillers for ozone 
     protection, Y-12 Plant, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, $3,100,000.
       Project 96-D-125, Washington measurements operations 
     facility, Andrews Air Force Base, Camp Springs, Maryland, 
     $900,000.
       Project 96-D-126, tritium loading line modifications, 
     Savannah River Site, South Carolina, $12,200,000.
       Project 95-D-122, sanitary sewer upgrade, Y-12 Plant, Oak 
     Ridge, Tennessee, $6,300,000.
       Project 94-D-124, hydrogen fluoride supply system, Y-12 
     Plant, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, $8,700,000.
       Project 94-D-125, upgrade life safety, Kansas City Plant, 
     Kansas City, Missouri, $5,500,000.
       Project 94-D-127, emergency notification system, Pantex 
     Plant, Amarillo, Texas, $2,000,000.
       Project 94-D-128, environmental safety and health 
     analytical laboratory, Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas, 
     $4,000,000.
       Project 93-D-122, life safety upgrades, Y-12 Plant, Oak 
     Ridge, Tennessee, $7,200,000.
       Project 93-D-123, complex-21, various locations, 
     $41,065,000.
       Project 88-D-122, facilities capability assurance program, 
     various locations, $8,660,000.
       Project 88-D-123, security enhancement, Pantex Plant, 
     Amarillo, Texas, $13,400,000.
       (c) Program Direction.--Subject to subsection (d), funds 
     are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
     Energy for fiscal year 1996 for program direction in carrying 
     out weapons activities necessary for national security 
     programs in the amount of $118,000,000.
       (d) Adjustments.--The total amount authorized to be 
     appropriated pursuant to this section is the sum of the 
     amounts authorized to be appropriated in subsections (a) 
     through (c) reduced by the sum of--
       (1) $25,000,000, for savings resulting from procurement 
     reform; and
       (2) $86,344,000, for use in prior year balances.
     SEC. 3102. ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT.
       (a) Corrective Activities.--Subject to subsection (i), 
     funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 1996 for corrective 
     activities in carrying out environmental restoration and 
     waste management activities necessary for national security 
     programs in the amount of $3,406,000, all of which shall be 
     available for the following plant project (including 
     maintenance, restoration, planning, construction, 
     acquisition, modification of facilities, and land acquisition 
     related thereto):
       Project 90-D-103, environment, safety and health 
     improvements, weapons research and development complex, Los 
     Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico.
       (b) Environmental Restoration.--Subject to subsection (i), 
     funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 1996 for environmental 
     restoration in carrying out environmental restoration and 
     waste management activities necessary for national security 
     programs in the amount of $1,575,973,000.
       (c) Waste Management.--Subject to subsection (i), funds are 
     hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
     Energy for fiscal year 1996 for waste management in carrying 
     out environmental restoration and waste management activities 
     necessary for national security programs in the amount of 
     $2,351,596,000, to be allocated as follows:
       (1) For operation and maintenance, $2,168,994,000.
       (2) For plant projects (including maintenance, restoration, 
     planning, construction, acquisition, modification of 
     facilities, and the continuation of projects authorized in 
     prior years, and land acquisition related thereto), 
     $182,602,000, to be allocated as follows:
       Project 96-D-406, K-Basin operations program, Richland, 
     Washington, $26,000,000.
       Project 96-D-407, mixed waste low level waste treatment 
     projects, Rocky Flats, Golden, Colorado, $2,900,000.
       Project 96-D-408, waste management upgrades, various 
     locations, $5,615,000.
       Project 95-D-402, install permanent electrical service for 
     the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, Carlsbad, New Mexico, 
     $4,314,000.
       Project 95-D-405, industrial landfill V and construction/
     demolition landfill VII, Phase III, Y-12 Plant, Oak Ridge, 
     Tennessee, $4,600,000.
       Project 95-D-406, road 5-01 reconstruction, area 5, Nevada 
     Test Site, Nevada, $1,023,000.
       Project 94-D-400, high explosive wastewater treatment 
     system, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New 
     Mexico, $4,445,000.
       Project 94-D-402, liquid waste treatment system, Nevada 
     Test Site, Nevada, $282,000.
       Project 94-D-404, Melton Valley storage tanks capacity 
     increase, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, 
     Tennessee, $11,000,000.
       Project 94-D-407, initial tank retrieval systems, Richland, 
     Washington, $9,400,000.
       Project 94-D-411, solid waste operations complex project, 
     Richland, Washington, $5,500,000.
       Project 94-D-417, intermediate level and low activity waste 
     vaults, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, 
     $2,704,000.
       Project 93-D-178, building 374 liquid waste treatment 
     facility, Rocky Flats Environmental Technology Site, Golden, 
     Colorado, $3,900,000.
       Project 93-D-182, replacement of cross-site transfer 
     system, Richland, Washington, $19,795,000.
       Project 93-D-183, multi-function waste remediation 
     facility, Richland, Washington, $31,000,000.
       Project 93-D-187, high-level waste removal from filled 
     waste tanks, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, 
     $19,700,000.
       Project 92-D-171, mixed waste receiving and storage 
     facility, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New 
     Mexico, $1,105,000.
       Project 92-D-188, waste management environmental, safety 
     and health (ES&amp;H) and compliance activities, various 
     locations, $1,100,000.
       Project 90-D-172, aging waste transfer lines, Richland, 
     Washington, $2,000,000.
       Project 90-D-177, RWMC transuranic (TRU) waste 
     characterization and storage facility, Idaho National 
     Engineering Laboratory, Idaho, $1,428,000.
       Project 90-D-178, TSA retrieval enclosure, Idaho National 
     Engineering Laboratory, Idaho, $2,606,000.
       Project 89-D-173, tank farm ventilation upgrade, Richland, 
     Washington, $800,000.
       Project 89-D-174, replacement high-level waste evaporator, 
     Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $11,500,000.
       Project 86-D-103, decontamination and waste treatment 
     facility, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, 
     California, $8,885,000.
       Project 83-D-148, nonradioactive hazardous waste 
     management, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, 
     $1,000,000.
       (d) Technology Development.--Subject to subsection (i), 
     funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 1996 for technology 
     development in carrying out environmental restoration and 
     waste management activities necessary for national security 
     programs in the amount of $390,510,000.
       (e) Transportation Management.--Subject to subsection (i), 
     funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 1996 for transportation 
     management in carrying out environmental restoration and 
     waste management activities necessary for national security 
     programs in the amount of $10,158,000.
       (f) Nuclear Materials and Facilities Stabilization.--
     Subject to subsection (i), funds are hereby authorized to be 
     appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 1996 
     for nuclear materials and facilities stabilization in 
     carrying out environmental restoration and waste management 
     activities necessary for national security programs in the 
     amount of $1,514,504,000 to be allocated as follows:
       (1) For operation and maintenance, $1,427,108,000.
       (2) For plant projects (including maintenance, restoration, 
     planning, construction, acquisition, modification of 
     facilities, and the continuation of projects authorized in 
     prior years, and land acquisition related thereto), 
     $87,396,000, to be allocated as follows:
       Project 96-D-458, site drainage control, Mound Plant, 
     Miamisburg, Ohio, $885,000.
       Project 96-D-461, Idaho National Engineering Laboratory 
     electrical distribution upgrade, Idaho National Engineering 
     Laboratory, Idaho, $1,539,000.
       Project 96-D-462, health physics instrument laboratory, 
     Idaho National Engineering Laboratory, Idaho, $1,126,000.
       Project 96-D-464, electrical and utility systems upgrade, 
     Idaho Chemical Processing Plant, Idaho National Engineering 
     Laboratory, Idaho, $4,952,000.
       Project 96-D-470, environmental monitoring laboratory, 
     Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $3,500,000.
       Project 96-D-471, CFC HVAC/chiller retrofit, Savannah River 
     Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $1,500,000.
       Project 96-D-473, health physics site support facility, 
     Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $2,000,000.
       Project 95-D-155, upgrade site road infrastructure, 
     Savannah River site, Aiken, South Carolina, $2,900,000.
       Project 95-D-156, radio trunking system, Savannah River 
     site, Aiken, South Carolina, $6,000,000.
       Project 95-D-454, 324 facility compliance/renovation, 
     Richland, Washington, $3,500,000.
       Project 95-D-456, security facilities consolidation, Idaho 
     Chemical Processing Plant, Idaho [[Page H5861]] National 
     Engineering Laboratory, Idaho, $8,382,000.
       Project 94-D-122, underground storage tanks, Rocky Flats 
     Plant, Golden, Colorado, $5,000,000.
       Project 94-D-401, emergency response facility, Idaho 
     National Engineering Laboratory, Idaho, $5,074,000.
       Project 94-D-412, 300 area process sewer piping system 
     upgrade, Richland, Washington, $1,000,000.
       Project 94-D-415, Idaho National Engineering Laboratory 
     medical facilities, Idaho National Engineering Laboratory, 
     Idaho, $3,601,000.
       Project 94-D-451, infrastructure replacement, Rocky Flats 
     Plant, Golden, Colorado, $2,940,000.
       Project 93-D-147, domestic water system upgrade, Phase I 
     and II, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, 
     $7,130,000.
       Project 93-D-172, Idaho National Engineering Laboratory 
     electrical upgrade, Idaho National Engineering Laboratory, 
     Idaho, $124,000.
       Project 92-D-123, plant fire/security alarm system 
     replacement, Rocky Flats Plant, Golden, Colorado, $9,560,000.
       Project 92-D-125, master safeguards and security agreement/
     materials surveillance task force security upgrades, Rocky 
     Flats Plant, Golden, Colorado, $7,000,000.
       Project 92-D-181, Idaho National Engineering Laboratory 
     fire and life safety improvements, Idaho National Engineering 
     Laboratory, Idaho, $6,883,000.
       Project 91-D-127, criticality alarm and plant annunciation 
     utility replacement, Rocky Flats Plant, Golden, Colorado, 
     $2,800,000.
       (g) Compliance and Program Coordination.--Subject to 
     subsection (i), funds are hereby authorized to be 
     appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 1996 
     for compliance and program coordination in carrying out 
     environmental restoration and waste management activities 
     necessary for national security programs in the amount of 
     $31,251,000, to be allocated as follows:
       (1) For operation and maintenance, $16,251,000.
       (2) For the following plant project (including maintenance, 
     restoration, planning, construction, acquisition, 
     modification of facilities, and the continuation of projects 
     authorized in prior years, and land acquisition related 
     thereto):
       Project 95-E-600, hazardous materials management and 
     emergency response training center, Richland, Washington, 
     $15,000,000.
       (h) Analysis, Education, and Risk Management.--Subject to 
     subsection (i), funds are hereby authorized to be 
     appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 1996 
     analysis, education, and risk management in carrying out 
     environmental restoration and waste management activities 
     necessary for national security programs in the amount of 
     $77,022,000.
       (i) Adjustments.--The total amount authorized to be 
     appropriated pursuant to this section is the sum of the 
     amounts specified in subsections (a) through (h) reduced by 
     the sum of--
       (1) $651,942,000, for use of prior year balances; and
       (2) $37,000,000 for Savannah River Pension Refund.
     SEC. 3103. PAYMENT OF PENALTIES.
       The Secretary of Energy may pay to the Hazardous Substance 
     Superfund established under section 9507 of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 9507), from funds 
     appropriated to the Department of Energy for environmental 
     restoration and waste management activities pursuant to 
     section 3102, stipulated civil penalties assessed under the 
     Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
     Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) in the amount 
     of $350,000 assessed against the Rocky Flats site, Colorado, 
     under such Act.
     SEC. 3104. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.
       (a) Other Defense Activities.--Subject to subsection (b), 
     funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 1996 for other defense 
     activities in carrying out programs necessary for national 
     security in the amount of $1,328,841,000, to be allocated as 
     follows:
       (1) For verification and control technology, $353,200,000, 
     to be allocated as follows:
       (A) For nonproliferation and verification research and 
     development, $163,500,000.
       (B) For arms control, $147,364,000.
       (C) For intelligence, $42,336,000.
       (2) For nuclear safeguards and security, $83,395,000.
       (3) For security investigations, $25,000,000.
       (4) For security evaluations, $14,707,000.
       (5) For the Office of Nuclear Safety, $15,050,000.
       (6) For worker and community transition assistance, 
     $75,000,000.
       (7) For fissile materials disposition, $70,000,000.
       (8) For emergency management, $23,321,000.
       (9) For naval reactors development, $682,168,000, to be 
     allocated as follows:
       (A) For operation and infrastructure, $659,168,000.
       (B) For plant projects (including maintenance, restoration, 
     planning, construction, acquisition, modification of 
     facilities, and the continuation of projects authorized in 
     prior years, and land acquisition related thereto), 
     $23,000,000, to be allocated as follows:
       Project 95-D-200, laboratory systems and hot cell upgrades, 
     various locations, $11,300,000.
       Project 95-D-201, advanced test reactor radioactive waste 
     system upgrades, Idaho National Engineering Laboratory, 
     Idaho, $4,800,000.
       Project 93-D-200, engineering services facilities, Knolls 
     Atomic Power Laboratory, Niskayuna, New York, $3,900,000.
       Project 90-N-102, expended core facility dry cell project, 
     Naval Reactors facility, Idaho, $3,000,000.
       (b) Adjustment.--The total amount that may be appropriated 
     pursuant to this section is the amount authorized to be 
     appropriated in subsection (a) reduced by the sum of 
     $13,000,000, for use of prior year balances.
     SEC. 3105. DEFENSE NUCLEAR WASTE DISPOSAL.
       Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy for fiscal year 1996 for payment to the 
     Nuclear Waste Fund established in section 302(c) of the 
     Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10222(c)) in the 
     amount of $198,400,000.
                Subtitle B--Recurring General Provisions
     SEC. 3121. REPROGRAMMING.
       (a) In General.--Until the Secretary of Energy submits to 
     the congressional defense committees the report referred to 
     in subsection (b) and a period of 30 days has elapsed after 
     the date on which such committees receive the report, the 
     Secretary may not use amounts appropriated pursuant to this 
     title for any program--
       (1) in amounts that exceed, in a fiscal year--
       (A) 110 percent of the amount authorized for that program 
     by this title; or
       (B) $1,000,000 more than the amount authorized for that 
     program by this title; or
       (2) which has not been presented to, or requested of, 
     Congress.
       (b) Report.--(1) The report referred to in subsection (a) 
     is a report containing a full and complete statement of the 
     action proposed to be taken and the facts and circumstances 
     relied upon in support of such proposed action.
       (2) In the computation of the 30-day period under 
     subsection (a), there shall be excluded any day on which 
     either <strong>House</strong> of Congress is not in session because of an 
     adjournment of more than 3 days to a day certain.
       (c) Limitations.--(1) In no event may the total amount of 
     funds obligated pursuant to this title exceed the total 
     amount authorized to be appropriated by this title.
       (2) Funds appropriated pursuant to this title may not be 
     used for an item for which Congress has specifically denied 
     funds.
     SEC. 3122. LIMITS ON GENERAL PLANT PROJECTS.
       (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy may carry out any 
     construction project under the general plant projects 
     authorized by this title if the total estimated cost of the 
     construction project does not exceed $2,000,000.
       (b) Report to Congress.--If, at any time during the 
     construction of any general plant project authorized by this 
     title, the estimated cost of the project is revised because 
     of unforeseen cost variations and the revised cost of the 
     project exceeds $2,000,000, the Secretary shall immediately 
     furnish a complete report to the congressional defense 
     committees explaining the reasons for the cost variation.
     SEC. 3123. LIMITS ON CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
       (a) In General.--(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
     construction on a construction project may not be started or 
     additional obligations incurred in connection with the 
     project above the total estimated cost, whenever the current 
     estimated cost of the construction project, which is 
     authorized by sections 3101, 3102, and 3104, or which is in 
     support of national security programs of the Department of 
     Energy and was authorized by any previous Act, exceeds by 
     more than 25 percent the higher of--
       (A) the amount authorized for the project; or
       (B) the amount of the total estimated cost for the project 
     as shown in the most recent budget justification data 
     submitted to Congress.
       (2) An action described in paragraph (1) may be taken if--
       (A) the Secretary of Energy has submitted to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the actions and 
     the circumstances making such action necessary; and
       (B) a period of 30 days has elapsed after the date on which 
     the report is received by the committees.
       (3) In the computation of the 30-day period under paragraph 
     (2), there shall be excluded any day on which either <strong>House</strong> of 
     Congress is not in session because of an adjournment of more 
     than 3 days to a day certain.
       (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
     construction project which has a current estimated cost of 
     less than $5,000,000.
     SEC. 3124. FUND TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
       (a) Transfer to Other Federal Agencies.--The Secretary of 
     Energy may transfer funds authorized to be appropriated to 
     the Department of Energy pursuant to this title to other 
     Federal agencies for the performance of work for which the 
     funds were authorized. Funds so transferred may be merged 
     with and be available for the same purposes and for the same 
     time period as the authorizations of the Federal agency to 
     which the amounts are transferred.
       (b) Transfer Within Department of Energy; Limitations.--(1) 
     Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of Energy may 
     transfer funds authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Department of Energy pursuant to this title between any such 
     authorizations. Amounts of authorizations so transferred may 
     be merged with and be available for the same purposes and for 
     the same time period as the authorization to which the 
     amounts are transferred.
       (2) Not more than 5 percent of any such authorization may 
     be transferred between authorizations under paragraph (1). No 
     such authorization may be increased or decreased by more than 
     5 percent by a transfer under such paragraph.
       (3) The authority provided by this section to transfer 
     authorizations--
       (A) may only be used to provide funds for items that have a 
     higher priority than the items from which the funds are 
     transferred; and
       (B) may not be used to provide authority for an item that 
     has been denied funds by Congress.
       (c) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary of Energy shall 
     promptly notify the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate 
     and the Committee [[Page H5862]] on National Security of the 
     <strong>House</strong> of Representatives of any transfer of funds to or from 
     authorizations under this title.
     SEC. 3125. AUTHORITY FOR CONCEPTUAL AND CONSTRUCTION DESIGN.
       (a) Requirement for Conceptual Design.--(1) Subject to 
     paragraph (2) and except as provided in paragraph (3), before 
     submitting to Congress a request for funds for a construction 
     project that is in support of a national security program of 
     the Department of Energy, the Secretary of Energy shall 
     complete a conceptual design for that project.
       (2) If the estimated cost of completing a conceptual design 
     for a construction project exceeds $3,000,000, the Secretary 
     shall submit to Congress a request for funds for the 
     conceptual design before submitting a request for funds for 
     the construction project.
       (3) The requirement in paragraph (1) does not apply to a 
     request for funds--
       (A) for a construction project the total estimated cost of 
     which is less than $2,000,000, or
       (B) for emergency planning, design, and construction 
     activities under section 3126.
       (b) Authority for Construction Design.--(1) Within the 
     amounts authorized by this title, the Secretary of Energy may 
     carry out construction design services (including 
     architectural and engineering services) in connection with 
     any proposed construction project if the total estimated cost 
     for such design does not exceed $600,000.
       (2) If the total estimated cost for construction design in 
     connection with any construction project exceeds $600,000, 
     funds for such design must be specifically authorized by law.
     SEC. 3126. AUTHORITY FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING, DESIGN, AND 
                   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
       (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Energy may use any funds 
     available to the Department of Energy pursuant to an 
     authorization in this title, including those funds authorized 
     to be appropriated for advance planning and construction 
     design under sections 3101, 3102, and 3104, to perform 
     planning, design, and construction activities for any 
     Department of Energy defense activity construction project 
     that, as determined by the Secretary, must proceed 
     expeditiously in order to protect public health and safety, 
     meet the needs of national defense, or to protect property.
       (b) Limitation.--The Secretary may not exercise the 
     authority under subsection (a) in the case of any 
     construction project until the Secretary has submitted to the 
     congressional defense committees a report on the activities 
     that the Secretary intends to carry out under this section 
     and the circumstances making such activities necessary.
       (c) Specific Authority.--The requirement of section 
     3125(b)(2) does not apply to emergency planning, design, and 
     construction activities conducted under this section.
       (d) Report.--The Secretary of Energy shall report to the 
     congressional defense committees any exercise of authority 
     under this section.
     SEC. 3127. FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR ALL NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS 
                   OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.
       Subject to the provisions of appropriations Acts and 
     section 3121 of this title, amounts appropriated pursuant to 
     this title for management and support activities and for 
     general plant projects are available for use, when necessary, 
     in connection with all national security programs of the 
     Department of Energy.
     SEC. 3128. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.
       When so specified in an appropriation Act, amounts 
     appropriated for operating expenses or for plant and capital 
     equipment may remain available until expended.
   Subtitle C--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations
     SEC. 3131. AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT PROGRAM RELATING TO FISSILE 
                   MATERIALS.
       (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Energy may conduct 
     programs designed to improve the protection, control, and 
     accountability of fissile materials in Russia.
       (b)  Prior Notice to Congress of Obligation of Funds.--
       (1) Annual requirement.--(A) Not less than 15 days before 
     any obligation of any funds appropriated for any fiscal year 
     for a program described in subsection (a), the Secretary of 
     Energy shall submit to the congressional committees specified 
     in subparagraph (B) a report on that proposed obligation for 
     that program for that fiscal year.
       (B) The congressional committees referred to in 
     subparagraph (A) are the following:
       (i) The Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate.
       (ii) The Committee on National Security, the Committee on 
     International Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations 
     of the <strong>House</strong> of Representatives.
       (2) Matters to be specified in reports.--Each such report 
     shall specify--
       (A) the activities and forms of assistance for which the 
     Secretary of Energy plans to obligate funds;
       (B) the amount of the proposed obligation; and
       (C) the projected involvement (if any) of any department or 
     agency of the United States (in addition to the Department of 
     Energy) and of the private sector of the United States in the 
     activities and forms of assistance for which the Secretary of 
     Energy plans to obligate such funds.
     SEC. 3132. NATIONAL IGNITION FACILITY.
       None of the funds appropriated pursuant to this title for 
     the National Ignition Facility may be obligated until--
       (1) the Secretary of Energy concludes that the construction 
     of the National Ignition Facility will not impede the nuclear 
     nonproliferation objectives of the United States; and
       (2) the Secretary of Energy notifies the congressional 
     defense committees of that conclusion.
     SEC. 3133. TRITIUM PRODUCTION.
       (a) New Tritium Production Activities.--Funds authorized to 
     be appropriated for fiscal year 1996 for new tritium 
     production activities shall be available only for the 
     following purposes and in the following amounts:
       (1) For implementation of multipurpose water reactor 
     technology, $60,000,000, of which--
       (A) $14,000,000 shall be made available to private industry 
     to begin implementation of the privatized multipurpose 
     reactor program plan submitted to the Department of Energy on 
     March 31, 1994; and
       (B) $20,000,000 shall be made available to the Idaho 
     National Engineering Laboratory for the test and development 
     of both the Light Water Reactor Tritium Target Program and 
     Mixed Oxide Fuels.
       (2) For research and development of accelerator technology, 
     $40,000,000.
       (b) Fissile Materials Control and Disposition.--Funds 
     authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1996 for 
     fissile materials storage and disposition activities shall be 
     available only for completing the evaluation and beginning 
     the implementation of the plutonium storage and disposition 
     option, including the multipurpose advanced light water 
     reactor, in the amount of $70,000,000, of which--
       (1) $5,000,000 shall be made available to the Idaho 
     National Engineering Laboratory for evaluation of plutonium 
     conversion to oxide fuel material in the multipurpose 
     advanced light water reactor; and
       (2) sufficient funds shall be made available for a complete 
     consideration of the multipurpose advanced light water 
     reactor in the Department of Energy programmatic 
     environmental impact statement.
       (c) Accelerator Research and Development.--(1) Subject to 
     paragraph (2), funds authorized in subsection (a)(2) shall be 
     used to continue research and development of the accelerator 
     technologies in defense areas, including its potential use as 
     a backup technology to the advanced light-water reactor 
     technology for tritium production.
       (2) Funds authorized in subsection (a)(2) may be expended 
     only after the Secretary begins implementation of the program 
     described in subsection (a)(1)(A).
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters
     SEC. 3141. REPORT ON FOREIGN TRITIUM PURCHASES.
       Not later than February 1, 1996, the President shall submit 
     to Congress a report on the feasibility of, the cost of, and 
     the political, legal, and other issues associated with 
     purchasing tritium from various foreign suppliers in order to 
     ensure an adequate supply of tritium in the United States for 
     nuclear weapons.
     SEC. 3142. STUDY ON NUCLEAR TEST READINESS POSTURES.
       Not later than February 15, 1996, the Secretary of Energy 
     shall submit to Congress a report on the cost of, and the 
     programmatic and other issues associated with, sustaining an 
     ability to conduct an underground nuclear test in 6, 18, and 
     36 months from the date on which the President determines 
     that such a test is necessary to ensure the national security 
     of the United States.
     SEC. 3143. MASTER PLAN ON WARHEADS IN THE ENDURING STOCKPILE.
       (a) Master Plan.--Not later than March 15, 1996, the 
     President shall submit to Congress a master plan that 
     describes in detail how the Government plans to demonstrate, 
     by 2002--
       (1) the capability to refabricate and certify warheads in 
     the enduring stockpile; and
       (2) the capability to design, fabricate, and certify new 
     warheads.
       (b) Form of Plan.--The plan should be submitted in 
     classified and unclassified forms.
     SEC. 3144. PROHIBITION ON INTERNATIONAL INSPECTIONS OF 
                   DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY FACILITIES UNLESS 
                   PROTECTION OF RESTRICTED DATA IS CERTIFIED.
       (a) Prohibition on Inspections.--The Secretary of Energy 
     may not allow an inspection of a nuclear weapons facility by 
     the International Atomic Energy Agency until--
       (1) the Secretary certifies to Congress that no restricted 
     data or classified information will be revealed during such 
     inspection; and
       (2) a period of 30 days has passed since the date on which 
     such certification was made.
       (b) Restricted Data Defined.--In this section, the term 
     ``restricted data'' has the meaning provided by section 11 y. 
     of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(y)).
          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
     SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.
       There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 
     1996 $17,000,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear 
     Facilities Safety Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy 
     Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 et seq.)
                TITLE XXXIII--NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE
     SEC. 3301. FISCAL YEAR 1996 AUTHORIZED USES OF STOCKPILE 
                   FUNDS.
       (a) Obligation of Stockpile Funds.--During fiscal year 
     1996, the National Defense Stockpile Manager may obligate up 
     to $77,100,000 of the funds in the National Defense Stockpile 
     Transaction Fund established under subsection (a) of section 
     9 of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 98h) for the authorized uses of such funds under 
     subsection (b)(2) of such section.
       (b) Additional Obligations.--The National Defense Stockpile 
     Manager may obligate amounts in excess of the amount 
     specified in subsection (a) if the National Defense Stockpile 
     [[Page H5863]] Manager notifies Congress that extraordinary 
     or emergency conditions necessitate the additional 
     obligations. The National Defense Stockpile Manager may make 
     the additional obligations described in the notification 
     after the end of the 45-day period beginning on the date 
     Congress receives the notification.
       (c) Limitations.--The authorities provided by this section 
     shall be subject to such limitations as may be provided in 
     appropriations Acts.
     SEC. 3302. PREFERENCE FOR DOMESTIC UPGRADERS IN DISPOSAL OF 
                   CHROMITE AND MANGANESE ORES AND CHROMIUM FERRO 
                   AND MANGANESE METAL ELECTROLYTIC.
       (a) Preference for Domestic Upgrading.--In offering to 
     enter into agreements pursuant to any provision of law for 
     the disposal from the National Defense Stockpile of chromite 
     and manganese ores of metallurgical grade or chromium ferro 
     and manganese metal electrolytic, the President shall give a 
     right of first refusal on all such offers to domestic 
     ferroalloy upgraders.
       (b) Domestic Ferroalloy Upgrader Defined.--For purposes of 
     this section, the term ``domestic ferroalloy upgrader'' means 
     a company or other business entity that, as determined by the 
     President--
       (1) is engaged in (or is capable of engaging in) operations 
     to upgrade chromite or manganese ores of metallurgical grade 
     or chromium ferro and manganese metal electrolytic; and
       (2) conducts a significant level of its research, 
     development, engineering, and upgrading operations in the 
     United States.
       (c) National Defense Stockpile Defined.--For purposes of 
     this section, the term ``National Defense Stockpile'' means 
     the stockpile provided for in section 4 of the Strategic and 
     Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98c).
     SEC. 3303. RESTRICTIONS ON DISPOSAL OF MANGANESE FERRO.
       (a) Disposal of Lower Grade Material First.--The President 
     may not dispose of high carbon manganese ferro in the 
     National Defense Stockpile that meets the National Defense 
     Stockpile classification of Grade One, Specification 30(a), 
     as revised on May 22, 1992, until completing the disposal of 
     all manganese ferro in the National Defense Stockpile that 
     does not meet such classification. The President may not 
     reclassify manganese ferro in the National Defense Stockpile 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (b) Requirement for Domestic Upgrading.--Manganese ferro in 
     the National Defense Stockpile that does not meet the 
     classification specified in subsection (a) shall only be sold 
     for domestic remelting in a submerged arc ferromanganese 
     furnace.
       (c) National Defense Stockpile Defined.--For purposes of 
     this section, the term ``National Defense Stockpile'' means 
     the stockpile provided for in section 4 of the Strategic and 
     Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98c).
     SEC. 3304. TITANIUM INITIATIVE TO SUPPORT BATTLE TANK UPGRADE 
                   PROGRAM.
       (a) Transfer of Titanium.--During each of the fiscal years 
     1996 through 2003, the Secretary of Defense shall transfer 
     from stocks of the National Defense Stockpile up to 250 short 
     tons of titanium sponge to the Secretary of the Army for use 
     in the weight reduction portion of the main battle tank 
     upgrade program. Transfers under this section shall be 
     without charge to the Army, except that the Secretary of the 
     Army shall pay all transportation and related costs incurred 
     in connection with the transfer.
       (b) National Defense Stockpile Defined.--For purposes of 
     this section, the term ``National Defense Stockpile'' means 
     the stockpile provided for in section 4 of the Strategic and 
     Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98c).
                 TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES
     SEC. 3401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
       There is hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
     Secretary of Energy $101,028,000 for fiscal year 1996 for the 
     purpose of carrying out activities under chapter 641 of title 
     10, United States Code, relating to the naval petroleum 
     reserves (as defined in section 7420(2) of such title). Funds 
     appropriated pursuant to such authorization shall remain 
     available until expended.
     SEC. 3402. PRICE REQUIREMENT ON SALE OF CERTAIN PETROLEUM 
                   DURING FISCAL YEAR 1996.
       Notwithstanding section 7430(b)(2) of title 10, United 
     States Code, during fiscal year 1996, any sale of any part of 
     the United States share of petroleum produced from Naval 
     Petroleum Reserves Numbered 1, 2, and 3 shall be made at a 
     price not less than 90 percent of the current sales price, as 
     estimated by the Secretary of Energy, of comparable petroleum 
     in the same area.
     SEC. 3403. SALE OF NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVE NUMBERED 1 (ELK 
                   HILLS).
       (a) Sale of Elk Hills Unit Required.--Chapter 641 of title 
     10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 
     7421 the following new section:
     ``Sec. 7421a. Sale of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 (Elk 
       Hills)
       ``(a) Sale Required.--(1) Notwithstanding any other 
     provision of this chapter, the Secretary shall sell all 
     right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
     lands owned or controlled by the United States inside Naval 
     Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1, commonly referred to as the Elk 
     Hills Unit, located in Kern County, California, and 
     established by Executive order of the President, dated 
     September 2, 1912. Within one year after the effective date, 
     the Secretary shall enter into one or more contracts for the 
     sale of all of the interest of the United States in the 
     reserve.
       ``(2) In this section:
       ``(A) The term `reserve' means Naval Petroleum Reserve 
     Numbered 1.
       ``(B) The term `unit plan contract' means the unit plan 
     contract between equity owners of the lands within the 
     boundaries of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 entered into 
     on June 19, 1944.
       ``(C) The term `effective date' means the date of the 
     enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 1996.
       ``(b) Equity Finalization.--(1) Not later than five months 
     after the effective date, the Secretary shall finalize equity 
     interests of the known oil and gas zones in Naval Petroleum 
     Reserve Numbered 1 in the manner provided by this subsection.
       ``(2) The Secretary shall retain the services of an 
     independent petroleum engineer, mutually acceptable to the 
     equity owners, who shall prepare a recommendation on final 
     equity figures. The Secretary may accept the recommendation 
     of the independent petroleum engineer for final equity in 
     each known oil and gas zone and establish final equity 
     interest in the Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 in 
     accordance with such recommendation, or the Secretary may use 
     such other method to establish final equity interest in the 
     reserve as the Secretary considers appropriate.
       ``(3) If, on the effective date, there is an ongoing equity 
     redetermination dispute between the equity owners under 
     section 9(b) of the unit plan contract, such dispute shall be 
     resolved in the manner provided in the unit plan contract 
     within five months after the effective date. Such resolution 
     shall be considered final for all purposes under this 
     section.
       ``(c) Timing and Administration of Sale.--(1) Not later 
     than two months after the effective date, the Secretary shall 
     retain the services of five independent experts in the 
     valuation of oil and gas fields to conduct separate 
     assessments, in a manner consistent with commercial 
     practices, of the fair market value of the interest of the 
     United States in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1. In 
     making their assessments, the independent experts shall 
     consider (among other factors) all equipment and facilities 
     to be included in the sale, the net present value of the 
     reserve, and the net present value of the anticipated revenue 
     stream that the Secretary determines the Treasury would 
     receive from the reserve if the reserve were not sold, 
     adjusted for any anticipated increases in tax revenues that 
     would result if the reserve were sold. The independent 
     experts shall complete their assessments within five months 
     after the effective date. In setting the minimum acceptable 
     price for the reserve, the Secretary shall consider the 
     average of the five assessments or, if more advantageous to 
     the Government, the average of three assessments after 
     excluding the high and low assessments.
       ``(2) Not later than two months after the effective date, 
     the Secretary shall retain the services of an investment 
     banker to independently administer, in a manner consistent 
     with commercial practices and in a manner that maximizes sale 
     proceeds to the Government, the sale of Naval Petroleum 
     Reserve Numbered 1 under this section.
       ``(3) Not later than five months after the effective date, 
     the sales administrator selected under paragraph (2) shall 
     complete a draft contract for the sale of Naval Petroleum 
     Reserve Numbered 1, which shall accompany the invitation for 
     bids and describe the terms and provisions of the sale of the 
     interest of the United States in the reserve. The draft 
     contract shall identify all equipment and facilities to be 
     included in the sale. The draft contract, including the terms 
     and provisions of the sale of the interest of the United 
     States in the reserve, shall be subject to review and 
     approval by the Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury, and 
     the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
       ``(4) Not later than six months after the effective date, 
     the Secretary shall publish an invitation for bids for the 
     purchase of the reserve.
       ``(5) Not later than nine months after the effective date, 
     the Secretary shall accept the highest responsible offer for 
     purchase of the interest of the United States in Naval 
     Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 that meets or exceeds the 
     minimum acceptable price determined under paragraph (1).
       ``(d) Future Liabilities.--The United States shall hold 
     harmless and fully indemnify the purchaser of the interest of 
     the United States in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 from 
     and against any claim or liability as a result of ownership 
     in the reserve by the United States.
       ``(e) Treatment of State of California Claim.--(1) All 
     claims against the United States by the State of California 
     or the Teachers' Retirement Fund of the State of California 
     with respect to land within the Naval Petroleum Reserve 
     Numbered 1 or production or proceeds of sale from the reserve 
     shall be resolved only as follows:
       ``(A) A payment from funds provided for this purpose in 
     advance in appropriation Acts.
       ``(B) A grant of nonrevenue generating land in lieu of such 
     a payment pursuant to sections 2275 and 2276 of the Revised 
     Statutes of the United States (43 U.S.C. 851 and 852).
       ``(C) Any other means that would not be inconsistent with 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621 et seq.).
       ``(D) Any combination of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C).
       ``(2) The value of any payment, grant, or means (or 
     combination thereof) under paragraph (1) may not exceed an 
     amount equal to seven percent of the proceeds from the sale 
     of the reserve, after deducting the costs incurred to conduct 
     the sale.
       ``(f) Production Allocation for Sale.--(1) As part of the 
     contract for purchase of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1, 
     the purchaser of the interest of the United States in the 
     reserve shall agree to make up to 25 percent of the 
     purchaser's share of annual petroleum production from the 
     purchased lands available for sale to small refiners, which 
     do not have their own adequate sources of supply of 
     petroleum, for processing or use only in their own 
     refineries. None [[Page H5864]] of the reserved production 
     sold to small refiners may be resold in kind. The purchaser 
     of the reserve may reduce the quantity of petroleum reserved 
     under this subsection in the event of an insufficient number 
     of qualified bids. The seller of this petroleum production 
     has the right to refuse bids that are less than the 
     prevailing market price of comparable oil.
       ``(2) The purchaser of the reserve shall also agree to 
     ensure that the terms of every sale of the purchaser's share 
     of annual petroleum production from the purchased lands shall 
     be so structured as to give full and equal opportunity for 
     the acquisition of petroleum by all interested persons, 
     including major and independent oil producers and refiners 
     alike.
       ``(g) Maintaining Elk Hills Unit Production.--Until the 
     sale of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 is completed under 
     this section, the Secretary shall continue to produce the 
     reserve at the maximum daily oil or gas rate from a 
     reservoir, which will permit maximum economic development of 
     the reservoir consistent with sound oil field engineering 
     practices in accordance with section 3 of the unit plan 
     contract. The definition of maximum efficient rate in section 
     7420(6) of this title shall not apply to the reserve.
       ``(h) Effect on Existing Contracts.--(1) In the case of any 
     contract, in effect on the effective date, for the purchase 
     of production from any part of the United States' share of 
     Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1, the sale of the interest 
     of the United States in the reserve shall be subject to the 
     contract for a period of three months after the closing date 
     of the sale or until termination of the contract, whichever 
     occurs first. The term of any contract entered into after the 
     effective date for the purchase of such production shall not 
     exceed the anticipated closing date for the sale of the 
     reserve.
       ``(2) The Secretary shall exercise the termination 
     procedures provided in the contract between the United States 
     and Bechtel Petroleum Operation, Inc., Contract Number DE-
     ACO1-85FE60520 so that the contract terminates not later than 
     the date of closing of the sale of Naval Petroleum Reserve 
     Numbered 1 under subsection (c).
       ``(3) The Secretary shall exercise the termination 
     procedures provided in the unit plan contract so that the 
     unit plan contract terminates not later than the date of 
     closing of the sale of reserve under subsection (c).
       ``(i) Effect on Antitrust Laws.--Nothing in this section 
     shall be construed to alter the application of the antitrust 
     laws of the United States to the purchaser of Naval Petroleum 
     Reserve Numbered 1 or to the lands in the reserve subject to 
     sale under this section upon the completion of the sale.
       ``(j) Preservation of Private Right, Title, and Interest.--
     Nothing in this section shall be construed to adversely 
     affect the ownership interest of any other entity having any 
     right, title, and interest in and to lands within the 
     boundaries of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 and which 
     are subject to the unit plan contract.
       ``(k) Congressional Notification.--Section 7431 of this 
     title shall not apply to the sale of Naval Petroleum Reserve 
     Numbered 1 under this section. However, the Secretary may not 
     enter into a contract for the sale of the reserve until the 
     end of the 31-day period beginning on the date on which the 
     Secretary notifies the Committee on Armed Services of the 
     Senate and the Committee on National Security and the 
     Committee on Commerce of the <strong>House</strong> of Representatives of the 
     proposed sale.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 7421 the following new item:
``7421a. Sale of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 (Elk Hills).''.
     SEC. 3404. STUDY REGARDING FUTURE OF NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES 
                   (OTHER THAN NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVE NUMBERED 
                   1).
       (a) Study Required.--The Secretary of Energy shall conduct 
     a study to determine which of the following options regarding 
     the naval petroleum reserves represents the most cost-
     effective option for the United States:
       (1) Retention and operation of the naval petroleum reserves 
     by the Secretary under chapter 641 of title 10, United States 
     Code.
       (2) Transfer of all or a part of the naval petroleum 
     reserves to the jurisdiction of another Federal agency.
       (3) Lease of the naval petroleum reserves.
       (4) Sale of the interest of the United States in the naval 
     petroleum reserves.
       (b) Conduct of Study.--The Secretary shall retain an 
     independent petroleum consultant to conduct the study.
       (c) Considerations Under Study.--An examination of the 
     benefits to be derived by the United States from the sale of 
     the naval petroleum reserves shall include an assessment and 
     estimate, in a manner consistent with commercial practices, 
     of the fair market value of the interest of the United States 
     in the naval petroleum reserves. An examination of the 
     benefits to be derived by the United States from the lease of 
     the naval petroleum reserves shall consider full exploration, 
     development, and production of petroleum products in the 
     naval petroleum reserves, with a royalty payment to the 
     United States.
       (d) Report Regarding Study.--Not later than December 31, 
     1995, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
     describing the results of the study and containing such 
     recommendations as the Secretary considers necessary to 
     implement the most cost-effective option identified in the 
     study.
       (e) Naval Petroleum Reserves Defined.--For purposes of this 
     section, the term ``naval petroleum reserves'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 7420(2) of title 10, 
     United States Code, except that such term does not include 
     Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1.
                  TITLE XXXV--PANAMA CANAL COMMISSION
              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations
     SEC. 3501. SHORT TITLE.
       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Panama Canal Commission 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996''.
     SEC. 3502. AUTHORIZATION OF EXPENDITURES.
       (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the Panama 
     Canal Commission is authorized to make such expenditures 
     within the limits of funds and borrowing authority available 
     to it in accordance with law, and to make such contracts and 
     commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, as may 
     be necessary under the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 U.S.C. 
     3601 et seq.) for the operation, maintenance, and improvement 
     of the Panama Canal for fiscal year 1996.
       (b) Limitations.--For fiscal year 1996, the Panama Canal 
     Commission may expend from funds in the Panama Canal 
     Revolving Fund not more than $50,741,000 for administrative 
     expenses, of which not more than--
       (1) $11,000 may be used for official reception and 
     representation expenses of the Supervisory Board of the 
     Commission;
       (2) $5,000 may be used for official reception and 
     representation expenses of the Secretary of the Commission; 
     and
       (3) $30,000 may be used for official reception and 
     representation expenses of the Administrator of the 
     Commission.
       (c) Replacement Vehicles.--Funds available to the Panama 
     Canal Commission shall be available for the purchase of not 
     to exceed 38 passenger motor vehicles built in the United 
     States (including large heavy-duty vehicles to be used to 
     transport Commission personnel across the isthmus of Panama). 
     A vehicle may be purchased with such funds only as necessary 
     to replace another passenger motor vehicle of the Commission.
     SEC. 3503. EXPENDITURES IN ACCORDANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
       Expenditures authorized under this subtitle may be made 
     only in accordance with the Panama Canal Treaties of 1977 and 
     any law of the United States implementing those treaties.
   Subtitle B--Reconstitution of Commission as Government Corporation
     SEC. 3521. SHORT TITLE.
       This subtitle may be cited as the ``Panama Canal Amendments 
     Act of 1995''.
     SEC. 3522. RECONSTITUTION OF COMMISSION AS GOVERNMENT 
                   CORPORATION.
       Section 1101 of the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 U.S.C. 
     3611) is amended to read as follows:


  ``establishment, purposes, offices, and residence of the commission
       ``Sec. 1101. (a) For the purposes of managing, operating, 
     and maintaining the Panama Canal and its complementary works, 
     installations and equipment, and of conducting operations 
     incident thereto, in accordance with the Panama Canal Treaty 
     of 1977 and related agreements, the Panama Canal Commission 
     (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the `Commission') is 
     established as a wholly owned government corporation (as that 
     term is used in chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code) 
     within the executive branch of the Government of the United 
     States. The authority of the President with respect to the 
     Commission shall be exercised through the Secretary of 
     Defense.
       ``(b) The principal office of the Commission shall be 
     located in the Republic of Panama in one of the areas made 
     available for use of the United States under the Panama Canal 
     Treaty of 1977 and related agreements, but the Commission may 
     establish branch offices in such other places as it deems 
     necessary or appropriate for the conduct of its business. 
     Within the meaning of the laws of the United States relating 
     to venue in civil actions, the Commission is an inhabitant 
     and resident of the District of Columbia and the eastern 
     judicial district of Louisiana.''.
     SEC. 3523. SUPERVISORY BOARD.
       Section 1102 of the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 U.S.C. 
     3612) is amended by striking so much as precedes subsection 
     (b) and inserting the following:


                          ``supervisory board
       ``Sec. 1102. (a) The Commission shall be supervised by a 
     Board composed of nine members, one of whom shall be the 
     Secretary of Defense or an officer of the Department of 
     Defense designated by the Secretary. Not less than five 
     members of the Board shall be nationals of the United States 
     and the remaining members of the Board shall be nationals of 
     the Republic of Panama. Three members of the Board who are 
     nationals of the United States shall hold no other office in, 
     and shall not be employed by, the Government of the United 
     States, and shall be chosen for the independent perspective 
     they can bring to the Commission's affairs. Members of the 
     Board who are nationals of the United States shall cast their 
     votes as directed by the Secretary of Defense or a designee 
     of the Secretary of Defense.''.
     SEC. 3524. INTERNATIONAL ADVISORS.
       Section 1102 of the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 U.S.C. 
     3612) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(d)(1) In order to enhance the prestige of the Commission 
     in the world shipping community and allow for the exchange of 
     varied perspectives between the Board and distinguished 
     international guests in the important deliberations of the 
     Commission, the Government of the United States and the 
     Republic of Panama may each invite to attend meetings of the 
     Board, as a designated international advisor to the Board, 
     one [[Page H5865]] individual chosen for the independent 
     perspective that individual can bring to the Commission's 
     affairs, and who--
       ``(A) is not a citizen of Panama;
       ``(B) does not represent any user or customer of the Panama 
     Canal, or any particular interest group or nation; and
       ``(C) does not have any financial interest which could 
     constitute an actual or apparent conflict with regard to the 
     relationship of the individual with the Board of the 
     Commission.
       ``(2) Such designated international advisors may be 
     compensated by the Commission in the same manner and under 
     the same circumstances as apply under subsection (b) with 
     regard to members of the Board. Such designated international 
     advisors shall have no vote on matters pending before the 
     Board.''.
     SEC. 3525. GENERAL AND SPECIFIC POWERS OF COMMISSION.
       The Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.) is 
     amended by inserting after section 1102 the following new 
     sections:


                   ``general powers of the commission
       ``Sec. 1102a. (a) The Commission, subject to the Panama 
     Canal Treaty of 1977 and related agreements, and to chapter 
     91 of title 31, United States Code, popularly known as the 
     Government Corporation Control Act--
       ``(1) may adopt, alter, and use a corporate seal, which 
     shall be judicially noticed;
       ``(2) may by action of the Board of Directors adopt, amend, 
     and repeal bylaws governing the conduct of its general 
     business and the performance of the powers and duties granted 
     to or imposed upon it by law;
       ``(3) may sue and be sued in its corporate name, except 
     that--
       ``(A) its amenability to suit is limited by Article VIII of 
     the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977, section 1401 of this Act, 
     and otherwise by law;
       ``(B) an attachment, garnishment, or similar process may 
     not be issued against salaries or other moneys owed by the 
     Commission to its employees except as provided by section 
     5520a of title 5, United States Code, and section 459, 461, 
     and 462 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 659, 661, 662), 
     or as otherwise specifically authorized by the laws of the 
     United States; and
       ``(C) it is exempt from the payment of interest on claims 
     and judgments;
       ``(4) may enter into contracts, leases, agreements, or 
     other transactions; and
       ``(5) may determine the character of, and necessity for, 
     its obligations and expenditures and the manner in which they 
     shall be incurred, allowed, and paid, and may incur, allow, 
     and pay them, subject to pertinent provisions of law 
     generally applicable to Government corporations.
       ``(b) The Commission shall have the priority of the 
     Government of the United States in the payment of debts out 
     of bankrupt estates.
                    ``specific powers of commission
       ``Sec. 1102b. (a) Subject to the Panama Canal Treaty of 
     1977 and related agreements, and to chapter 91 of title 31, 
     United States Code, popularly known as the Government 
     Corporation Control Act, the Commission may--
       ``(1) manage, operate, and maintain the Panama Canal;
       ``(2) construct or acquire, establish, maintain, and 
     operate docks, wharves, piers, shoreline facilities, shops, 
     yards, marine railways, salvage and towing facilities, fuel-
     handling facilities, motor transportation facilities, power 
     systems, water systems, a telephone system, construction 
     facilities, living quarters and other buildings, warehouses, 
     storehouses, a printing plant, and manufacturing, processing, 
     or service facilities in connection therewith, recreational 
     facilities, and other activities, facilities, and 
     appurtenances necessary and appropriate for the 
     accomplishment of the purposes of this Act;
       ``(3) use the United States mails in the same manner and 
     under the same conditions as the executive departments of the 
     Federal Government; and
       ``(4) take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to 
     carry out the powers specifically conferred upon it.''.
     SEC. 3526. CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF BUDGET.
       Section 1302 of the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 U.S.C. 
     3712) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)(1) by striking ``and subject to 
     paragraph (2)'';
       (2) by striking paragraph (2);
       (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2); and
       (4) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
       ``(e) In accordance with section 9104 of title 31, United 
     States Code, the Congress shall review the annual budget of 
     the Commission.''.
     SEC. 3527. AUDITS.
       Section 1313 of the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 U.S.C. 
     3723) is amended--
       (1) by striking the heading for the section and inserting 
     the following:


                              ``audits'';
       (2) in subsection (a) by striking ``Financial 
     transactions'' and inserting ``Subject to subsection (d), 
     financial transactions'';
       (3) in subsection (b) in the first sentence by striking 
     ``The Comptroller General'' and inserting ``Subject to 
     subsection (d), the Comptroller General''; and
       (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
       ``(d) At the discretion of the Board provided for in 
     section 1102, the Commission may hire independent auditors to 
     perform, in lieu of the Comptroller General, the audit and 
     reporting functions prescribed in subsections (a) and (b).
       ``(e) In addition to auditing the financial statements of 
     the Commission, the independent auditor shall, in accordance 
     with standards for an examination of a financial forecast 
     established by the American Institute of Certified Public 
     Accountants, examine and report on the Commission's financial 
     forecast that it will be in a position to meet its financial 
     liabilities on December 31, 1999.''.
     SEC. 3528. PRESCRIPTION OF MEASUREMENT RULES AND RATES OF 
                   TOLLS.
       Section 1601 of the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 U.S.C. 
     3791) is amended to read as follows:


         ``prescription of measurement rules and rates of tolls
       ``Sec. 1601. The Commission may, subject to the provisions 
     of this Act, prescribe and from time to time change--
       ``(1) the rules for the measurement of vessels for the 
     Panama Canal; and
       ``(2) the tolls that shall be levied for use of the Panama 
     Canal.''.
     SEC. 3529. PROCEDURES FOR CHANGES IN RULES OF MEASUREMENT AND 
                   RATES OF TOLLS.
       Section 1604 of the Panama Canal Act of 1979 (22 U.S.C. 
     3794) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a) in the first sentence by striking 
     ``1601(a)'' and inserting ``1601'';
       (2) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
       ``(c) After the proceedings have been conducted pursuant to 
     subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the Commission may 
     change the rules of measurement or rates of tolls, as the 
     case may be. The Commission shall, however, publish notice of 
     such change in the Federal Register not less than 30 days 
     before the effective date of the change.''; and
       (3) by striking subsections (d) and (e) and redesignating 
     subsection (f) as subsection (d).
     SEC. 3530. MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
       The Panama Canal Act of 1979 is amended--
       (1) in section 1205 (22 U.S.C. 3645) in the last sentence 
     by striking ``appropriation'' and inserting ``fund'';
       (2) in section 1303 (22 U.S.C. 3713) by striking ``The 
     authority of this section may not be used for administrative 
     expenses.'';
       (3) in section 1321(d) (22 U.S.C. 3731(d)) in the second 
     sentence by striking ``appropriations or'';
       (4) in section 1401(c) (22 U.S.C. 3761(c)) by striking 
     ``appropriated for or'';
       (5) in section 1415 (22 U.S.C. 3775) by striking 
     ``appropriated or''; and
       (6) in section 1416 (22 U.S.C. 3776) in the third sentence 
     by striking ``appropriated or''.
     SEC. 3531. CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO TITLE 31, UNITED STATES 
                   CODE.
       Section 9101(3) of title 31, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following:
       ``(P) the Panama Canal Commission.''.
  The CHAIRMAN. No amendments to the Committee amendment in the nature 
of a substitute, as modified, are in order except amendments printed in 
<strong>House</strong> Report 104-136, amendments en bloc described in section 3 of 
<strong>House</strong> Resolution 164, and amendments described in section 4 of the 
resolution.
  Except as specified in section 5 of the resolution or unless 
otherwise specified in the report, the amendments shall be considered 
in the order printed, may be offered only by a Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered as read, shall not be subject to amendment 
or to a demand for a division of the question, and shall be debatable 
for 10 minutes, equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an 
opponent of the amendment, except that the Chairman and Ranking 
Minority Member of the Committee on National Security each may offer 
one pro forma amendment for the purpose of further debate on any 
pending amendment.
  Consideration of amendments printed in subpart B of part 1 of the 
report shall begin with an additional period of general debate confined 
to the subject of cooperative threat reduction with the former Soviet 
Union. That period of debate shall not exceed 30 minutes, equally 
divided and controlled by the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member.
  Consideration of amendments printed in subpart D of part 1 of the 
report shall begin with an additional period of general debate which 
shall be confined to the subject of ballistic missile defense. That 
period of debate shall not exceed 60 minutes, equally divided and 
controlled by the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member.
  It shall be in order at any time for the Chairman of the Committee on 
National Security or his designee to offer amendments en bloc 
consisting of amendments printed in part 2 of the report or germane 
modifications of any such amendment.
  Amendments en bloc shall be considered as read (except that 
modifications shall be reported) shall be debatable for 20 minutes 
equally divided and controlled by the Chairman and Ranking Minority 
Member, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for a division of the question.
  The original proponent of an amendment included in amendments en bloc 
may insert a statement in the Congressional Record immediately before 
disposition of the amendments en bloc. [[Page H5866]] 
  It shall be in order for the gentleman from Pennsylvania [Mr. 
Clinger], with the concurrence of the gentlewoman from Illinois [Mrs. 
Collins], to offer amendment No. 1 printed in subpart C of part 1 of 
the report in a modified form that is germane to the form printed in 
the report.
  After disposition of all other amendments, it shall be in order at 
any time for the chairman of the Committee on National Security or his 
designee to offer an amendment not printed in the report to reconcile 
spending levels reflected in the bill with the corresponding level 
reflected in a conference report to accompany a concurrent resolution 
on the budget for fiscal year 1996.
  That amendment shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 10 
minutes, equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking 
minority member or their designees, shall not be subject to amendment, 
and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
  The Chairman of the Committee of the Whole may postpone until a time 
during further consideration in the Committee of the Whole a request 
for a recorded vote on any amendment made in order by the resolution.
  The Chairman of the Committee of the Whole may reduce to not less 
than 5 minutes the time for voting by electronic device on any 
postponed question that immeditely follows another vote by electronic 
device without intervening business, provided that the time for voting 
by electronic device on the first in any series of questions shall not 
be less than 15 minutes.
  The Chairman of the Committee of the Whole may recognize for 
consideration of amendments made in order by the resolution out of the 
order in which they are printed, but not sooner than 1 hour after the 
chairman or a designee announces from the floor a request to that 
effect.
  The request to consider amendments Nos. 1 and 2 printed in subpart B 
of part 1 of <strong>House</strong> Report 104-136 prior to amendment No. 1 in subpart A 
of part 1 was made at the beginning of general debate.
  Therefore, it is now in order to debate the subject matter of 
cooperative threat reduction with the former Soviet Union. The 
gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. Spence] and the gentleman from 
California [Mr. Dellums] will each be recognized for 15 minutes. The 
Chair will then recognize the gentleman from California [Mr. Dornan] to 
offer amendment No. 1 in subpart B of part 1.
  The chair now recognizes the gentleman from South Carolina.
  Mr. SPENCE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  (Mr. SPENCE asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. SPENCE. Mr. Chairman, the National Security Committee was driven 
by two objectives in its review of the Cooperative Threat Reduction (or 
``Nunn-Lugar'') program. First, the committee sought to promote and 
fully fund the core objectives and activities of the program--the 
accelerated dismantlement and destruction of strategic forces of the 
former Soviet Union and the nonproliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction.
  The committee-reported bill approved the budget request for these 
types of projects, with two exceptions. First, the Committee denied 
funds for construction of a multi-billion dollar chemical weapons 
destruction facility and a fissile material storage facility, because, 
as noted in a recent General Accounting Office [GAO] report, these 
projects are ill-defined and involve outstanding issues that ought to 
be resolved prior
 to the obligation of scarce defense dollars and perhaps more 
fundamentally, the taxpayers' money.
  And second, the Committee did not fund the $40 million requested by 
the Administration to support defense conversion in Russia and 
elsewhere. Even if conversion in Russia is feasible, which is a 
debateable proposition, such activities more appropriately fall into 
the category of either foreign aid or economic assistance and should 
not be the funding responsibility of the Defense Department.
  Furthermore, the GAO report raised concerns that Nunn-Lugar 
conversion activities may be hindering privatization in the former 
Soviet Union by subsidizing state-run military enterprises. If so, this 
result would be in direct contradiction to the defense Department's 
assertions that Nunn-Lugar defense conversion activities have enhanced 
Russia's prospects for longer-term economic reform.
  The Committee's second objective was to enhance Congressional 
oversight of DoD's progress in carrying out these projects. H.R. 1530 
calls for an annual accounting of U.S. Nunn-Lugar aid delivered to the 
former Soviet Union, and requires prior notification of the obligation 
of such funds. Certainly it is not unreasonable to expect to know where 
and how these funds, once approved, will be spent.
  In all, I believe the Committee's recommended authorization of $200 
million for Cooperative Threat Reduction accomplishes the twin 
objectives of aggressively promoting ``core'' dismantlement activities 
and simultaneously improving Congressional oversight of Nunn-Lugar 
programs.
  However, the Committee has serious concerns about certain-on-going 
Russian activities that would seem to be inconsistent with an improved 
political relationship. Mr. Dornan plans to offer an amendment that 
would prohibit obligation of Nunn-Lugar funds, not cut them, until the 
President certifies that the Russian offensive biological weapons 
program has been terminated. I support the Dornan amendment as an 
important expression of concern about on-going Russian programs 
involving weapons of mass destruction. I urge a strong ``yes'' vote.
  By contrast, the Hamilton amendment would substantially weaken the 
standards that proposed recipient countries must meet in order to be 
eligible to receive Nunn-Lugar assistance. H.R. 1530 sought to tighten 
those standards to ensure that Russia and other recipient countries are 
meeting certain minimum eligibility standards, such as complying with 
arms control agreements and respecting the rights of minorities. 
Therefore, I urge a ``no'' vote on the Hamilton amendment.
                              {time}  1800
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the distinguished 
gentleman from Texas [Mr. Stenholm].
  Mr. STENHOLM. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to urge my colleagues to 
continue to support the Nunn-Lugar program that is helping to dismantle 
Russian nuclear weapons.
  While I have had concerns about how some of the funds were spent in 
this program, I believe that the National Security Committee bill has 
more properly constrained the program to those areas most directly 
connected to dismantling weapons. Money would not be spent on programs 
that I believe are extraneous to the central mission of Nunn-Lugar--
which is to destroy and end the threat of Russian nuclear weapons.
  This amendment that we will consider that would prevent this program 
from going forward is not in the best interest of our national 
security. Secretary Perry has made this program one of his highest 
priorities--precisely because it literally removes the threat posed by 
these Russian nuclear weapons. The Nunn-Lugar program are a small price 
to pay to protect the U.S. and our NATO allies from the threat posed by 
these weapons of mass destruction.
  We should not cut off our nose to spite our face. Let the President 
continue to help the Russians live up to their pledge to end their 
biological and chemical weapons programs.
  I urge my colleagues to support the committee position on Nunn-Lugar 
and to reject any killer amendment that will stop us from dismantling 
Russian nuclear weapons.
  Mr. SPENCE. Mr. Chairman, I yield the remainder of my time to the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania [Mr. Weldon], and I ask unanimous consent 
that he be allowed to control that time.
  The CHAIRMAN pro tempore (Mr. LaHood). Is there objection to the 
request of the gentleman from South Carolina?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
distinguished gentleman from California [Mr. Hunter].
  Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania [Mr. Weldon] for giving me some time. [[Page H5867]] 
  Mr. Chairman, this is a very ticklish subject and a very ticklish 
issue that requires a lot of balance. This is the money that we send to 
the Soviet Union and the aid we send to the Soviet Union for the 
purpose that rises in this Congress of helping the Soviet Union to 
dismantle and basically move the loaded guns that they have aimed at 
America's cities and America's military installations away from the 
target, and ultimately to unload those guns and take the bullets apart; 
that is, do away with the intercontinental ballistic missiles aimed at 
the United States and dismantle those missiles.
  Now, this is tough and it requires a lot of balancing, and I think it 
requires some very close scrutiny. The reason it requires close 
scrutiny in balancing is because the Soviet Union, at the same time 
that they are dismantling a number of their weapons as a result of 
their arms accord with us, with the United States, they are also 
pursuing modernization programs for new nuclear weapons. The last thing 
the United States wants to be involved in
 doing is inadvertently giving money to the Soviet Union not to get rid 
of the old stuff, but to build new stuff, new weapons aimed at the 
United States.
  We know at least in theory, that for every dollar you give the Soviet 
Union, if they have a requirement under their treaties to dismantle a 
certain number of weapons, which they in fact have under the arms 
control treaties negotiated over the last 10 years, and they do not 
have to use that dollar in dismantling the weapons, those dollars, 
which are very dear and scarce in the Soviet Union, can then be turned 
toward modernizing and building new weapons.
  Because of that, the committee thought it was prudent to cut about 
$171 million out of the President's request. I think we have done the 
right thing, and I think the message to the administration is you had 
better give us more oversight or we are going to cut more next year.
  Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 2 minutes.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the robust operation of the Nunn-
Lugar program that dismantles Russian nuclear weapons and in strong 
opposition to the Dornan amendment. That amendment, in this gentleman's 
opinion, is a killer amendment to the Nunn-Lugar Program. It would 
provide that no Nunn-Lugar funds could be obligated or expended for 
programs or activities with Russia unless and until the United States 
President certifies that Russia has terminated its offensive biological 
weapons program. The administration strongly opposes the amendment, and 
I believe so should this <strong>House</strong>.
  Proponents argue that the Russians may be continuing to implement 
their offensive biological weapons programs. This will compel the 
Russians to abandon this work. Proponents argue that if they do not 
abandon this work, they should not be engaged in the cooperative threat 
reduction program.
  The cooperative threat reduction program is a central element of U.S. 
national security policy, Mr. Chairman. The effort to secure the 
destruction of Russian nuclear warheads should not be halted because of 
a more exotic and much less threat posed by a biological weapons 
program, much less the possibility of such a program. This would be 
very much a case of cutting off our nose to spite our face.
  The point here is very obvious: The dismantling of nuclear weapons is 
an imperative unto itself, and it should not be coupled with biological 
weapons which should also be cut. President Yeltsin has pledged to end 
the program and is taking steps to do so. Because of the uncertainties 
of his success in achieving that goal immediately, the President would 
not be able to issue a certification that the Russians indeed have 
terminated the program, despite the fact they are at least in the 
process of terminating the program. The Dornan amendment is an 
additional element that will kill the program of dismantling nuclear 
weapons because of the President's inability to certify that the 
Russian Government's efforts are immediately successfully.
  The original certification language in the Nunn-Lugar program was 
bipartisan in nature. It recognized how complex the enterprise would 
be, and its importance warranted a degree of flexibility in the 
certification process. The committee bill already
 further constrains that process. We do not need to kill the program 
under the guise of improvement. I urge a no vote on the Dornan 
amendment.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from California [Mr. Dornan], the distinguished chairman of 
the Subcommittee on Military Personnel.
  (Mr. DORNAN asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. DORNAN. Mr. Chairman, I will return, of course, to discuss this 
in greater department when my own amendment comes up after general 
debate here, but I did want to point out that in addition to a 45 
minute briefing on the rescue of Captain Scott O'Grady, and wait until 
America finds out what a close run thing that was, according to my 
sources, who are the key people that directed the rescue, but before 
the last time I spoke on this floor, I spent an hour upstairs in the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence's secret cleared rooms 
getting a briefing from intelligence community people on the Soviets' 
serious efforts in chemical warfare.
  New report just out a week ago, available to all Members: Their work 
on biological warfare, super plagues, using the Marburg and Ebola 
viruses, anthrax, smallpox, bubonic plague, active programs. Any Member 
can have a team of intelligence community people come to their office, 
without sweeping their office, and get a secret briefing on this. A lot 
of Members have been here 10 or 20 years and are not aware of that. I 
learned that when I was a freshman, before I was in the Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence.
  Get briefed. I am not engaging in one-upmanship
   here, saying you must trust me and those of us on the Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence. Here is a book, non-secret, open to 
any American, the Chemical and Biological Warfare Threat. It is a 
comprehensive, powerfully written body of work here. I only have three 
copies, first come first served. I would love to give them to somebody 
if I though they would study it over the next hour and it would change 
their vote.
  Look at this article that is going to be on the back of the pass-out 
that I will circulate around. I have hundreds of them over here. This 
is 21 days ago on a GAO report, March 18: Russia uses Pentagon funds in 
constructing nuclear weapons with our money. They have only spent $177 
million out of a billion and a quarter. The State Department is going 
to add 90 million to this.
  This is real money. This is real money we are talking about here. 
This is money carved out of modernization weapons programs under Mr. 
Hunter, research and development under Mr. Weldon, installations under 
Mr. Hefley, personnel raises that are not there this year under my 
chairmanship of the Subcommittee on Military Personnel, and under 
readiness, under Mr. Bateman, money that we could use to keep our men 
and women battle ready.
  This is serious money we are talking about here, and these things 
should be certified before your tax dollars are spent in what remains 
of the Evil Empire. Deception, and more deception.
  Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to my distinguished 
colleague, the gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. Spratt].
  (Mr. SPRATT asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Mr. Chairman, I oppose the Dornan amendment because the Dornan 
amendment would in effect wipe out what is a very good program, a 
bipartisan program, Nunn-Lugar. I would be the first to admit that 
Nunn-Lugar can be improved, but this amendment before us just goes too 
far. It throws out every baby with the bath water.
  Nunn-Lugar has three major objectives: First, to destroy weapons of 
mass destruction, nuclear, chemical, biological, that belong to the 
Soviet Union; second, to prevent the proliferation of the components of 
these weapons, nuclear materials and missile guidance devices after 
they have been dismantled and before they are destroyed; and, three, to 
prevent the diversion of scientists and engineers who made these 
weapons to other countries [[Page H5868]] where they could make them 
again and use them against us.
  Nobody can dispute those objectives. Nobody can claim that those are 
not worthy objectives. And this must be made clear, Nunn-Lugar is not a 
handout for the benefit of Russia, Belarus or Kazakhstan. This is a 
program which is in our best interests as well as theirs. Has it 
worked? That is a key question.
  I have a report card from the Pentagon, and this is how they would 
grade it. First of all, Nunn-Lugar has helped remove more than 2,800 
warheads from missiles in the former Soviet Union, 2,800 warheads have 
been removed from missiles in the former Soviet Union. About 1,800 of 
these warheads were on missiles in the Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan. 
All of the Kazakhstan warheads have been removed and returned to 
Russia. Ukrainian and Belarusian warheads will be returned by the end 
of next summer. That is significant process: 2,800 warheads, 1,800 of 
these have been removed.
  Nunn-Lugar has also helped destroy 630 strategic launchers and 
bombers, deactivated another 1,000 bombers in the Ukraine and 
Kazakhstan, all of this in our interests.
  Third, Nunn-Lugar partly funded the transportation of 600 kilograms 
of highly enriched uranium, enough to make at least 20 weapons, from 
Kazakhstan to safe storage in this country at Oak Ridge, TN.
  Fourth, Nunn-Lugar is constructing a plutonium storage facility in 
Tomsk, Siberia. That has been one of the earliest objectives of it. 
From the outset we said we want to not only dismantle these weapons and 
remove them from the silos, we want to get them under tight control 
where they can be accounted for in a facility built specifically for 
that purpose.
                              {time}  1815
  It has taken some time to get off the ground. A facility built to 
store plutonium components, the pits, that comes out of warheads, 
critically important components that we do not want to escape the 
Soviet Union. That facility is finally under way in Tomsk, Siberia. For 
goodness sake, we do not want to stop that.
  Fifth, Nunn-Lugar has helped employ 8,200 weapons scientists and 
engineers in civilian research projects. Instead of going somewhere 
else, bending their talents to the use of some other country which 
might have policies that are intense and hostile to us, instead of 
using them to build weapons against us in the former Soviet Union, 
8,200 weapons scientists are employed in civilian research at a very 
favorable exchange rate for our money.
  Personally, I would give Nunn-Lugar, based on that report card, a 
solid B plus. Maybe because it was slow to get out of the starting 
blocks, a little bit slow to pick up speed, momentum, we would give it 
a solid B, but no less than that. And on certain important tests, it 
has literally aced out. It has achieved its intended purposes.
  For example, it has denuclearized Kazakhstan, and Ukraine and Belarus 
will be denuclearized. There will be no weapons, nuclear weapons in 
those three countries by the end of next summer, which is an 
extraordinary achievement by any yardstick. If we do not stop this 
program, three of the four nuclear weapons states of the former Soviet 
Union will have no nuclear weapons by the end of next summer. Do we 
want to stop that kind of progress?
  This program may not grade well on chemical and biological weapons. I 
understand and share the frustration of the gentleman from California 
[Mr. Dornan] in that respect. I do not blame him there in the least. 
The former Soviet Union is not doing nearly enough. But his amendment, 
if I can continue the metaphor, would expel, if you will, the whole 
Nunn-Lugar program for poor grades in this particular area on 
biological and chemical weapons, and this is shortsighted for the 
reasons just mentioned.
  Why slow down the efforts to get nuclear warheads out of Ukraine and 
Belarus because of the sins of Russia? Why stop what is a fundamentally 
extraordinary program in those two countries because of disagreement 
with Russia on chemical and biological weapons? Second, why stop 
dismantling nuclear weapons in Russia because progress on other weapons 
is not all yet that it can be?
  I have here some photographs that I would invite everyone to take 
note of, photographic evidence of what is taking place. It just gives a 
little graphic emphasis.
  Here is a missile, an SS-19 being removed from a silo with Nunn-Lugar 
money. Here is a bomber being cut up with a chain saw, the equivalent 
of it, Nunn-Lugar money. Here is another. And here is Secretary Perry 
standing with a Russian officer looking at a silo where a weapon has 
been removed, about to be dismantled and destroyed.
  Let us not stop this program because of our disagreement with the 
Russians over their chemical and biological program. Let us vote 
against this Dornan amendment.
  Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Kansas, [Mr. Tiahrt], one of the coauthors of an 
amendment that will be coming up in a few moments.
  (Mr. TIAHRT asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. TIAHRT. Mr. Chairman, I think what Nunn-Lugar does is an 
admirable idea. I approach it with cautious support.
  We do want to make sure that we have a safe environment, that we have 
a safe world, that we have a reduction in the threat over in Russia. 
But we also have an obligation to the American people, even though we 
have an admirable goal, we have to make sure that we get a dollar's 
worth of threat reduction for a dollar's worth of tax.
  We have this article that the gentleman from California [Mr. Dornan] 
referred to that mentioned, it was in the Washington Times, it mentions 
that the Pentagon funds possibly are going for the construction of new 
nukes. There was a GAO audit that it was based on. I have that audit, 
GAO audit, here with me. That is why I am a little cautious because we 
are spending money, $200 million, to make sure that our world is more 
safe. And they do need our help. But are they taking this money and are 
they doing away with their environmental waste or are they doing away 
with actual weapons of mass destruction?
  Is there something going to help clean up their environment, or are 
we actually cutting up weapons as we just saw in the pictures before?
  I am a coauthor of the Dornan-Tiahrt amendment because I think we 
need to have some verification. Are they in fact doing what they say 
they are? Right now, according to the GAO, we cannot go in and audit 
them. We do not know if we are getting a dollar's worth of threat 
reduction for a dollar's worth of tax. Can you imagine how mad, how 
angry U.S. taxpayers are going to be, sitting at their kitchen table 
if, in fact, the Russian government is creating weapons of mass 
destruction instead of reducing them with this money that we are 
sending them. We need a common-sense approach to this, and that is why 
I am cosponsoring the Dornan-Tiahrt amendment so that we can go in and 
verify that we are in fact reducing this threat.
  Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Indiana [Mr. Hamilton].
  Mr. HAMILTON. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding time 
to me.
  I speak in opposition to the Dornan amendment. I am well aware, of 
course, that it is well-intentioned, but I do believe it harms U.S. 
national security.
  I think we have to be very clear about the impact of the Dornan 
amendment. It ends the Nunn-Lugar program to destroy Russian missiles 
and silos. All of us agree that the Russians could give us better 
performance and information about the biological weapons program. But 
the Dornan amendment will stop U.S. support for nuclear weapons 
destruction and the fissile material safety programs in Russia. We 
should not let the best outcome, which is perfect information from the 
Russians on all weapon programs, shut down a very good program. And 
Nunn-Lugar is a very good program.
  It has helped remove 2,825 warheads from missiles, removed 1,785 
warheads from Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan, removed 70 missiles from 
launchers, returned 75 missiles to Russia, deactivated 1,000 strategic 
bombers, destroyed 630 missiles, denuclearized Kazakhstan, and it will 
denuclearize Ukraine and Belarus by mid-1996. So Nunn-Lugar reduces the 
threat to the [[Page H5869]] United States. It provides cheap and 
effective missile defense. It helps the United States monitor Russian 
intentions and capabilities, and it is very cheap, costing less than 1/
10ths of 1 percent of the defense budget.
  So Nunn-Lugar keeps us engaged in working with the Russians in 
support of U.S. national security goals, and I believe that the Dornan 
amendment stops a program that helps dismantle Russian nuclear missiles 
and warheads.
  The Dornan amendment, in my judgment, harms U.S. national security. I 
urge a no vote on it.
  Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to the 
time remaining?
  The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Pennsylvania, [Mr. Weldon] has 4\1/
2\ minutes remaining, and the gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. 
Spratt] has 4 minutes remaining.
  Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. I yield 1 minute to the distinguished 
gentleman from Wisconsin [Mr. Neumann].
  Mr. NEUMANN. Mr. Chairman, I rise to support the Dornan amendment as 
I would support virtually any amendment that stops or slows the flow of 
United States tax dollars to Russia. The defense authorization bill 
that we are currently considering allows the expenditure of $6 million 
to continue the design of a facility for storage of fissile material in 
Russia. Let me translate that to English for the American taxpayer. We 
are authorizing funds to design a storage facility for parts, 
components of nuclear warheads that are going to be stored in Russia on 
a long-term basis.
  To me it makes no sense whatsoever that we should take tax dollars 
from America and spend it in Russia to design a storage facility to 
<strong>house</strong> fissile materials or components for future nuclear warheads. I 
strongly support the Dornan amendment because it will slow the flow of 
United States tax dollars to Russia.
  Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Massachusetts [Mr. Meehan].
  Mr. MEEHAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Cooperative Threat 
Reduction Program. This bi-partisan inspired initiative has leveraged 
our defense spending by reducing a variety of threats that eminate from 
the States of the former Soviet Union. Throughout the cold war the 
United States expended a great deal of resources to confront the Soviet 
Union in central Europe, and across the world. We now have the unique 
opportunity to work with our former adversary to reduce the threat 
posed by weapons created during this period.
  The United States in cooperation with the government's of Russia, the 
Ukraine, Kazakstan, and Belarus have already made progress in moving to 
a more secure future through arms reductions and the safeguarding of 
nuclear materials.
  This program is a pragmatic response to developments in Russia. It 
allows the United States to work with the Russians in areas of mutual 
benefit, while hedging against any reversal in the reforms now 
underway.
  The mere pledge of this funding was a motivating factoring in the 
Ukraine's decision to return their nuclear weapons to Russia for 
safeguarding and destruction. In a similar vain, funds have been used 
to provide equipment and training necessary for the destruction of 
strategic nuclear delivery vehicles and facilities. A prime example of 
the result of this program has been the destruction of Russian Bear 
bombers.
  The treat of the dispersal of nuclear materials is at the top of most 
everyones list of concerns. We know of several arrests in Europe that 
have allegedly involved the attempted sale of nuclear materials from 
the former Soviet Union. Currently, materials control, accountability 
and physical protection practices in Russia are rudimentary at best. 
The Cooperative Threat Reduction Program includes efforts to rectify 
this situation.
  There is plenty of work left to be done. This program is in the 
forefront of our post-cold-war defense strategy and should receive the 
support of each of my colleagues.
  Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance 
of my time.
  The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Pennsylvania [Mr. Weldon], is 
recognized for 3\1/2\ minutes.
  (Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania asked and was given permission to revise 
and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, let us recap this debate. 
First of all, this is not about ending the Nunn-Lugar program.
  Second of all, let me explain from my perspective, as someone who for 
the past 20 years has focused on Soviet-American issues, who currently 
cochairs two caucuses in this Congress working to enhance business 
opportunities in the area of energy and oil and gas as well as the 
environmental issues, working with Nikoli Vorontsov, a member of 
Russian Duma on environmental concern and working with the gentleman 
from Texas, [Mr. Laughlin], and Members of this Congress on helping 
projects like the Sakhalin project, a $10 billion investment of western 
money in Siberia, we are not about ending help in the case of the 
Russians dismantling their nuclear weapons.
  In fact, I have been personally involved in supporting two specific 
programs, $10 million of money being used in Murmansk to help the 
Russians put together a process to dispose of their spent nuclear fuel 
and their nuclear waste. A terrible problem that we are working with 
them on. It is working, and our investment I think is a wise one.
  A second project is helping to convert the Baltic shipyard where the 
Kirov class of ships were built into an environmental mediation center.
  Mr. Chairman, what this amendment does is it says that, before we put 
one more dime of money in, the Russians should meet us halfway. We are 
talking, Mr. Chairman, about biological weapons. It seems to me in the 
past 9 years I have heard Member after Member on the other side of the 
aisle say we have got to stop the proliferation of biological weapons. 
And certainly if we are putting money in, we should be doing that.
  That is what this amendment does. Now, one of our colleagues on the 
other side, from South Carolina, said that we have done so many 
positive things, and he said that we have removed warheads. But what he 
did not say is that we have destroyed warheads. Because my colleague 
knows full well that we do not have one ounce of documentation that 
even one warhead has been destroyed, not one ounce of documentation, 
because the Russians will not allow us to observe the destruction of 
any warheads.
  So, Mr. Chairman, let us be realistic about what is going on. Sure, 
there have been positive strides made, and sure we should continue the 
effort of dismantling launchers and other support material in line with 
the photographs we saw here.
                              {time}  1830
  However, let us not put a cloud over the eyes of the American people. 
We are saying that we will continue to fund the Russians in their 
effort to dismantle their nuclear arsenal. We will continue to help 
clean up Ukraine and Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Belarus, ``but we will do 
it when you certify to us that you were not building biological weapons 
that threaten the security of peace-loving people around the world.''
  Also, we are fencing the money, which means the President can certify 
to us that that in fact is no longer taking place. Mr. Chairman, I 
think the average taxpayer back in our districts would support this 
kind of amendment. I, as one, who supports business ventures in Russia, 
who speaks the language and travels over there frequently, want to see 
us continue to support a stabilized Russia. However, we have to do it 
with our eyes open. I think the Dornan-Tiahrt amendment allows us to do 
that. I would encourage our colleagues, when the amendment comes up, to 
vote ``aye.''
  Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, could the Chair advise me how much time 
remains on our side?
  The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. Spratt] has 2 
minutes remaining.
  Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of our time.
  Mr. Chairman, this amendment begins with a legitimate grievance, as 
the gentleman has just stated. We are not satisfied with all the 
Russians are doing and should be doing to end and get rid of their 
chemical and biological weapons program.
  However, having begun with that premise, it moves to the wrong 
conclusion. It, in effect, says we should punish ourselves and the 
Russians at the [[Page H5870]] same time. Why is that? Because if we 
stop the Nunn-Lugar program, due to the fact that we are dissatisfied 
with their progress in stopping their chemical-biological program, then 
we will stop ourselves from achieving a highly significant goal, the 
removal of all nuclear weapons from Kazakhstan and Belarus by next 
summer.
  I think the gentleman who just spoke, the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
[Mr. Weldon], my good friend, would agree that is a worthy objective. 
That is an objective that serves our national security interests. Why 
do we want to cut off our noses to spite our face? Can we actually say 
that the weapons are being dismantled, that the warheads are being 
dismantled? We will take a step closer to being satisfied of that fact.
  Once we have completed the facility in Tomsk that we have finally 
begun to fund, finally broken ground upon, using Nunn-Lugar money, and 
if we stop the money now, we put that facility, which is a critical 
component, towards certification and verification in jeopardy. I simply 
say, in trying to punish the Russians, we are punishing the 
Kazakhstanis, we are functioning the Belarusans, and we are punishing 
ourselves, and that does not make sense.
  The CHAIRMAN. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 1 printed 
in subpart B of part 1 of the report.
                    amendment offered by mr. dornan
  Mr. DORNAN. Mr. Chairman, I offer an amendment.
  The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:
       Amendment offered by Dornan:
       At the end of title XI (page 383, after line 9), insert the 
     following new section:
     SEC. 1108. LIMITATION ON COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAM 
                   RELATING TO OFFENSIVE BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS 
                   PROGRAM IN RUSSIA.
       None of the funds appropriated pursuant to the 
     authorization in section 301 for Cooperative Threat Reduction 
     programs may be obligated or expended for programs or 
     activities with Russia unless and until the President submits 
     to Congress a certification in writing that Russia has 
     terminated its offensive biological weapons program.
  The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from California 
[Mr. Dornan] will be recognized for 5 minutes, and the gentleman from 
South Carolina [Mr. Spratt], will be recognized for 5 minutes for the 
minority.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California [Mr. Dornan].
  Mr. DORNAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise to defend the Dornan-Tiahrt 
amendment. I will be working one of the doors, as we say in the 
colloquial expression around here, with my confederates on all 3, 4, 5 
doors, to pass this out during the vote. Here is the essence of my 
``Dear Colleague.'' This is from excellent reporting by reporter Bill 
Gertz just a few weeks ago in the Washington Times. It was also heavily 
covered around the world.
  A defector who is now public, Vladimir Pasechnik, on Soviet active 
offensive biological weapons programs, says this: ``Russia continues to 
invest in biological weapons.'' I said earlier what they are, the 
Marburg Ebola virus, the plain Ebola virus, bubonic plague, anthrax. 
During the worst days of the evil empire, there were some open press 
stories of putting it maybe into ICBMs, aerosoled, to be used as city-
killers.
  In 1993, according to this scientist, he revealed that the Soviet 
Union and Russia had violated the 1972 biological weapons convention, 
and by the way, after 20 years they admitted that they violated all of 
that for 20 years, thanks to an honest statement on the part of 
President Yeltsin. That convention outlawed the development or 
production of bacteriological weapons by continuing to produce them.
  ``Pasechnik had recently served in an organization known as 
biopreparat, with about 400 other scientists working on genetic 
engineering of germ weaponry. He claimed Russia had developed a super 
plague that would kill half the population of a city in a week,'' as in 
the beginning of Hot Zone, which I have confirmed from scientists is 
accurate, turned into the bestseller ``Outbreak,'', slowly painfully 
retching up all of your innards.
  Former CIA Director Robert Gates testified in 1993 that the agency 
believes the Russian military is continuing to work clandestinely on 
illegal biological weapons without the knowledge of Russian civilian 
leaders.
  Mr. Chairman, I want to reserve the rest of my time to let some of my 
other colleagues, starting with the gentleman from Kansas [Mr. Tiahrt], 
speak. We are not ending the program, Lugar-Nunn. We are not taking 
away funds. We are fencing the money, a word learned in this Chamber 
during the Nicaraguan debate, where the good guys won, we are fencing 
it to get certification that this utter diabolical madness is coming to 
an end.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
California [Ms. Harman].
  (Ms. HARMAN asked and was given permission to revise and extend her 
remarks.)
  Ms. HARMAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to the 
amendment offered by the gentleman from California [Mr. Dornan] to 
condition the expenditure of funds for the Nunn-Lugar program.
  Mr. Chairman, it is one thing to reduce offensive chemical and 
biological weapons in the Russian arsenal. I agree with the gentleman 
from California that we need to do that, and would be pleased to work 
with him on that goal.
  However, it seems to me to be the height of folly to condition the 
progress of another successful program that protects American citizens 
from Russian missiles on our ability to achieve the goal the gentleman 
sets forth.
  To cut off your nose to spite your face is the phrase my friend and 
colleague, the gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. Spratt] has just 
used. He is right. As he also described earlier, Nunn-Lugar has reduced 
the threat of Russian missiles, missiles formerly targeted at the 
United States and our Western allies.
  We need to remember that the greatest beneficiary of the Nunn-Lugar 
program is the United States, not Russia, but the United States. To 
halt progress, by means of this amendment, on reducing the threat 
represented by the remaining missiles and warheads is to put our 
citizens, American citizens, at risk.
  Mr. Chairman, both Nunn-Lugar and the gentleman from California [Mr. 
Dornan], the author of this amendment, set laudable goals. However, to 
condition one of the other is to risk both, to risk reducing the 
nuclear threat and to risk overcoming the threat of chemical and 
biological weapons. Reject the Dornan amendment.
  Mr. DORNAN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from 
Kansas [Mr. Tiahrt], the cosponsor of the amendment.
  (Mr. TIAHRT asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. TIAHRT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Dornan-Tiahrt 
amendment for very obvious reasons. I am really surprised that Members 
would oppose such an amendment. What we are doing is verifying that 
Russia is getting rid of their biological weapons. We just want 
verification. We just want to know that when we spend a dollar's worth 
of tax, that we get a dollar's worth of threat reduction.
  I do not see how they could betray the U.S. taxpayers and oppose 
this, because what we are doing is verifying that their hard-earned 
money is going to reduce the threat, to make a safer world for them, 
and if we do not do that, then we are just wasting this money. It could 
have been wasted, according to the GAO report. I think it is time we 
put some common sense into Nunn-Lugar.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong support of the Dornan-Tiahrt 
amendment to the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
  The Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, or CTR, is funded through 
the Pentagon in an attempt to help finance the dismantling of the 
former Soviet Union's nuclear arsenal. However a recent General 
Accounting Office report [GAO] shows that this money is being used to 
fund the work of Russian scientists who are spending at least part of 
their time developing new and more menacing Russian missiles and 
nuclear and chemical arms.
  After reading the GAO report and recent press accounts, I requested 
that the <strong>House</strong> National Security Committee hold oversight hearings on 
the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, also known as the Nunn-Lugar 
program. We must be absolutely sure that this money is being used 
properly, and I look forward to these hearings.
  I strongly urge my colleagues to support this amendment, the Dornan-
Tiahrt amendment, [[Page H5871]] which requires the President to 
certify that the Russian offensive biological weapons program has been 
terminated.
  The CTR was cut drastically in the National Security Committee. $171 
million was cut from a $371 million administration request. Our 
amendment does not cut CTR funding below the Committee recommendation 
of $200 million, it just makes a simple request which we think 
addresses a world-wide humanitarian concern.
  This amendment puts a restriction on any additional CTR money going 
to the former Soviet Union, unless Russia terminates her offensive 
biological weapons program. It's a simple and fair request. Actually, 
it doesn't matter how fair it is. Russia should end its biological 
weapons program now, and we should use the CTR money in a way that 
makes this happen.
  The GAO report included many potential problems with the CTR program.
  Moscow is refusing to permit audits of U.S. funds paid under the 
program.
  The purpose of the program, to reduce the threat of nuclear weapons 
proliferation, and improve control over nuclear materials, is not being 
realized.
  In fact the report says that CTR money might even be going to enhance 
Russian nuclear and chemical arms capabilities.
  The National Defense Authorization Act as reported out by committee 
made a responsible cut in the administration's request for the 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, and I support that reduction, and 
applaud the chairman's work. This amendment simply ensures that 
Russia's offensive biological weapons program will be terminated.
  Some might argue, like the administration does, that CTR money only 
goes to dismantle the former Soviet Union's nuclear arsenal. If that is 
true, they should have no problem with this amendment. It's time for 
Russia to terminate this program in good faith, and for the President 
to certify its termination, in order to ensure that CTR funds are used 
for their intended purpose; to control weapons of mass destruction, not 
proliferate them.
  Mr. DORNAN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 30 seconds to the fighting 
freshman, the gentleman from Jonesville, WI, Mr. Mark Neumann.
  Mr. NEUMANN. Mr. Chairman, I have a big concern that the American 
taxpayers would not want to spend their money in Russia for this 
purpose, period. However, if we do decide to spend United States 
taxpayer money in Russia for this purpose, at the very least we want 
verification that the money is being spent in a manner that we expect 
it to be spent, and accomplish the purpose that we are expecting to be 
accomplished.
  At this point in time, the United States has no guarantee and no 
verification that it is getting the job done that we are spending the 
money on. I rise in support of this amendment, so we can at least 
receive verification as to what is happening.


                         parliamentary inquiry
  Mr. DORNAN. Mr. Chairman, I have a parliamentary inquiry.
  The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman will state it.
  Mr. DORNAN. Am I allowed, as the author of this great amendment, to 
go last, Mr. Chairman?
  The CHAIRMAN. No, the gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. Spratt] has 
the right to close.
  Mr. DORNAN. That is all right, Mr. Chairman, because I am going to 
close with 60 percent of the five chairmen under the gentleman from 
South Carolina [Mr. Spence] who is also for this bill.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
[Mr. Weldon], chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Research and 
Development of the Committee on National Security.
  (Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania asked and was given permission to revise 
and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, in summary, I would say 
once again, we are talking about a General Accounting Office report in 
assessing how successful this program has been. I am not one standing 
here saying we should do away with the program. To the contrary, I have 
been supportive of elements of Nunn-Lugar, and have spoken in favor of 
it.
  What we are saying to the taxpayers is that ``If we are going to send 
more of your dollars into Russia, we certainly do not want any of that 
money to be used to build more biological weapons that can be used 
against us or our troops.''
  Mr. Chairman, who could oppose that?
  Mr. Chairman, I include for the Record a document which is an update 
on reducing the threat from the Former Soviet Union, and an article by 
Bill Gertz.
  The document and article referred to are as follows:
  Summary of GAO's Responses to Department of Defense Comments in our 
 Recent Report, Weapons of Mass Destruction: Reducing the Threat From 
         the Former Soviet Union; An Update (GAO/NSIAD-95-165)
       Point 1. The Department of Defense objected to our finding 
     that the material impact of the CTR program has been limited 
     to date. DOD stated that we overlooked the program's 
     political impact and leverage in insuring that former Soviet 
     states undertake weapons elimination programs and in 
     obtaining agreements from Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Ukraine to 
     become non-nuclear states.
       Response. We believe that the Department's comments stem 
     from a misunderstanding of the purpose of our report. Our 
     report focused on the material impact of CTR projects over 
     the past year in addressing the threats posed by former 
     Soviet weapons of mass destruction and on the prospects for 
     such effects in the future.
       Point 2. DOD stated that we had underestimated the role of 
     the material assistance provided and stated examples to 
     support its comment. Specifically, DOD asserted that we 
     failed to acknowledge the benefits of delivered CTR 
     assistance including support equipment to Ukraine and armored 
     protective blankets to Russia. DOD further stated that Russia 
     is ``today'' using U.S.-supplied guillotine shears to cut up 
     heavy bombers.
       Response. We stated in our report that without CTR 
     assistance Ukraine could not dismantle its nuclear weapons 
     and that Russian officials told us that Russia has used the 
     armored blankets to protect warheads being withdrawn from 
     Ukraine. The guillotine shears have not yet been used and are 
     not expected to be used until July 1995.
       Point 3. DOD stated that numerous tangible reductions in 
     the threat to the United States have been achieved ``through 
     a combination of leverage provided by the CTR program and 
     direct material assistance.'' For example, DOD states that 
     missiles containing 2.825 warheads have been deactivated and 
     that approximately 630 strategic launchers and bombers have 
     been eliminated since the Soviet collapse.
       Response. The examples that DOD provides in support of this 
     statement do not distinguish between reductions that may be 
     attributed to political impacts since the Soviet Union's 
     collapse in December 1991 and those that have resulted from 
     the delivery of CTR aid. Although claiming that 2.825 
     warheads had been deactivated, DOD does not indicate how many 
     of these were deactivated through the direct use of CTR 
     assistance--assistance that only began arriving in mid-1993. 
     DOD claims that 630 strategic launchers and bombers have been 
     eliminated since the Soviet collapse, yet Russia had 
     eliminated more than 400 of these by July 1994--before 
     receiving CTR delivery vehicle elimination assistance.
       Point 4. DOD's comments imply that every missile and every 
     warhead deactivated in the former Soviet Union since December 
     1991 can be attributed to the CTR program.
       Response. While making such claims, DOD does not provide a 
     clear accounting as to how and to what extent CTR hardware 
     had been used by the FSU states to eliminate a specific 
     number of systems. Although we asked DOD officials to provide 
     support for the material impact of CTR assistance in 
     dismantling specific numbers of systems, they have not done 
     so. Officials recently informed us that it may be impossible 
     to determine this impact in terms of specific numbers of 
     systems.
       Point 5. The Department of Defense objected to our matter 
     for congressional consideration that Congress may wish to 
     consider reducing the CTR program's fiscal year 1996 request 
     for $104 million for support to Russian chemical weapons 
     destruction efforts by about $34 million because of 
     uncertainties regarding the expenditure. DOD also asserted 
     that we were incorrect in stating that the United States and 
     Russia had not yet agreed upon a technology for destroying 
     chemical weapons.
       Response. However, as DOD indicates in its comments, Russia 
     has selected a technology that the United States would not 
     have recommended--an unproven technology the United States is 
     now attempting to validate. Unlike the U.S. preferred 
     incineration process, the Russian technology has no record of 
     performance outside the laboratory, and the Russians have not 
     provided sufficient data to allay U.S. concerns about the 
     technology's technical and cost uncertainties.
       Point 6. DOD cites that progress has been made in CTR 
     projects that are improving protection of nuclear material 
     that presents a proliferation risk, including the lab-to-lab 
     program for improving material protection in Russia.
       Response. This comment overstates the impact of fiscal year 
     1995 CTR funds on the lab-to-lab program. This Department of 
     Energy (DOE) program has successfully completed a project to 
     upgrade physical protection of approximately 100 kilograms of 
     highly enriched uranium at the Kurchatov Institute in Moscow. 
     However, the project was completed in February 1995 using DOE 
     funds as fiscal year 1995 CTR funds for the lab-to- 
     [[Page H5872]] lab program were not transferred to DOE until 
     April 1995.
       Point 7. DOD points to Project Sapphire (the removal of HEU 
     from Kazakhstan) as a CTR project.
       Response. Project Sapphire was not a CTR project. It was an 
     executive branch project funded by the Departments of State, 
     Energy, and Defense. Some CTR funds were used to pay for 
     DOD's portion of the project.
       Point 8. DOD claims that the CTR defense conversion program 
     should receive high marks from GAO for accelerating from 
     start-up to 15 active projects in a little more than a year.
       Response. Although DOD has accelerated the start-up of 15 
     projects, we believe that it is too early to judge the 
     success of these projects.
       Point 9. DOD claims that its defense conversion efforts 
     reduce the threat from weapons of mass destruction.
       Response. We found that most of the defense conversion 
     efforts are converting dormant facilities that produced 
     weapons related items.
       Point 10. Although there have been some inconsistencies in 
     references in DOD documents, DOD generally describes the 
     recipients of International Science and Technology Center 
     (ISTC) grants as ``former Soviet'' weapons scientists.
       Response. DOD's assertion that the recipients are ``former 
     Soviet'' weapons scientists is incorrect. DOD often--in 
     testimony, budget submissions, and briefing documents--used 
     the terminology ``former'' weapons scientists or scientists 
     formerly involved in a weapons program.
                      [From the Washington Times]
          Russia Uses Pentagon Funds in Constructing New Nukes
                            (By Bill Gertz)
       Pentagon funds aimed at reducing the threat of nuclear war 
     are instead being used to pay Russian scientists still at 
     work on nuclear and chemical arms, according to a draft 
     report by Congress' General Accounting Office (GAO).
       The GAO report also states that Moscow is refusing to 
     permit audits of U.S. funds paid under the so-called Nunn-
     Lugar threat-reduction program, named after sponsoring Sens. 
     Sam Nunn, Georgia Democrat, and Richard G. Lugar, Indiana 
     Republican.
       The report concludes that the U.S. aid program, currently 
     funded at about $1.25 billion, has produced little in the way 
     of reducing the threat of weapons proliferation or improving 
     control over nuclear materials.
       Instead, it indicates U.S. funds may be enhancing some 
     Russian nuclear and chemical arms capabilities.
       Most funds for converting defense plants to civilian 
     production are being used by Moscow to reactivate dormant 
     weapons facilities, according to the May 18 report.
       Activities of the International Science and Technology 
     Center in Moscow, funded with $21 million of Pentagon money, 
     raised the most concerns among the GAO investigators, who 
     studied the program from January to May.
       Despite Pentagon claims that only ``former'' nuclear 
     weapons scientists are receiving U.S. money to discourage 
     them from emigrating, ``we found that scientists receiving 
     center funds may continue to be employed by institutes 
     engaged in weapons work,'' the report states.
       ``Recipients of two center grants at three different 
     institutes told us that they had been involved in nuclear 
     weapons testing and nerve agent research,'' the report 
     stated.
       The GAO auditors also discovered that scientists paid by 
     the center are not employed full time and ``may spend part of 
     their time working on Russian weapons of mass destruction,'' 
     the report stated.
       Scientists are allowed to work at Russian weapons 
     laboratories while receiving U.S. funds, and in some cases 
     only 10 percent of their time is spent at the center, 
     ``raising the prospect that they could spend the remainder of 
     their time on their institutes' work on weapons of mass 
     destruction,'' the report said.
       The GAO study follows a report that Russia is continuing to 
     build newer nuclear arms. Russian Nuclear Energy Minister 
     Viktor Mikhailov said last year that a new generation of 
     nuclear weapons could be developed by the year 2000 unless 
     military nuclear research was stopped.
       Moscow also unveiled its new strategic missile in December 
     called the RS-12M ``Topol,'' a follow-on version of the SS-25 
     mobile ICBM.
       U.S. officials told the GAO that the center ``is intended 
     to help prevent proliferation . . . rather than preclude 
     scientists from working on Russian weapons of mass 
     destruction,'' the report stated, noting that the center 
     prohibits the use of its funds for weapons-related work.
       Another problem with the center, according to the GAO, is 
     that it is ``creating dual-use items'' with both civilian and 
     military applications. For example, a special commercial 
     camera under development by the center can be used in nuclear 
     testing and could be exported, according to the GAO.
       Officials in charge of the center told the GAO they could 
     monitor its projects ``only intermittently'' instead of 
     quarterly, as they would prefer.
       Next year the State Department will take over funding the 
     center from the Pentagon and plans to spend $90 million more 
     over the next seven years.
       Congress has approved the use of $1.25 billion for the 
     Nunn-Lugar program for fiscal 1992 through 1995. In addition, 
     $735 million has been requested for the next two years.
       Republicans in Congress, however, plan to cut the program 
     substantially and limit the funds to weapons dismantling, 
     congressional sources said. The <strong>House</strong> National Security 
     Committee will complete work on its version of the fiscal 
     1996 defense authorization bill tomorrow.
       Out of about $1.2 billion the Pentagon has notified 
     Congress it will spend in the former Soviet nuclear states, 
     only $177 million has been spent, mostly on weapons being 
     dismantled under the START treaty, the Moscow center and 
     nuclear railcar security, according to the GAO.
       Despite agreements that permit audits of how U.S. funds are 
     spent, ``none have been conducted in Russia and Ukraine'' 
     because of government objections there, the report stated. 
     One was conducted in Belarus, it said.
       A report to Congress required by law on the according of 
     U.S. aid is four months late. Pentagon officials could not be 
     reached for comment on the GAO report.
  Mr. DORNAN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire of my worthy colleague, the 
gentleman from South Carolina, [Mr. Spratt], if he has more than one 
speaker left?
  Mr. SPRATT. I would tell the gentleman I am it, Mr. Chairman.
  Mr. DORNAN. Mr. Chairman, this fighter pilot will take over for that 
paratrooper, the gentleman from California, Mr. Duncan Hunter.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield myself my remaining time.
  Mr. Chairman, the gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. Spence], and all 
5 chairmen of the committee support the Dornan-Tiahrt amendment. Mr. 
Chairman, I will be passing out the GAO report at the doors during the 
debate. This is consistent with the committee position requiring 
presidential certification of all the Russian arms control.
  We will be back next year to do this on chemical warfare. We just 
want to make sure that biological weapons programs have been 
terminated. The good Russian people, the reformers, want this type of 
tough legislation, and it does not, repeat, not, cut Nunn-Lugar funding 
below the committee recommendation. The gentleman from Arizona [Mr. 
Stump] wants a yes, and so does the gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. 
Spence].
  Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I would ask, do I have 2 minutes remaining?
  The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. Spratt] has 3 
minutes remaining.
  Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I would like to state once again that the 
gentleman begins with a premise that I do not contest. I do not know to 
what extent we give validity to it, but we will stipulate for purposes 
of this argument that Russia is not doing all they should be doing in 
terminating, bringing to an end, their CBW, chemical-biological weapons 
program. No contest there. The issue here is, Mr. Chairman, what do we 
do about it.
  The proposal before us in the Dornan amendment would say ``Let us 
take the Nunn-Lugar money,'' a program that has been slow to start, but 
now gathering momentum and showing real results, ``Let us take it and 
stop it,'' as a punitive measure towards the Russians until we can get 
certification from the President that they are doing everything they 
can and should be doing to terminate this program.'' Here is what is 
wrong with that.
  This program, the Nunn-Lugar program, sometimes called the 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, has taken thus far all nuclear 
weapons out of the State of Kazakhstan, as of the end of April. By the 
end of next summer, 1996, it will have removed, deactivated and 
removed, all nuclear weapons out of Ukraine and Belarus. When the FSU, 
the former Soviet Union, or the Soviet Union dissolved, there suddenly 
appeared on the world stage 4 new nuclear powers, or 3 nuclear powers, 
in place of or in addition to the one former Soviet Union. Now we will 
go back to having just one. 2,800 missiles have been removed so far. 
750 have been removed from their launchers.
                              {time}  1845
  We are building a storage facility in Tomsk, Siberia, using the money 
for the Nunn-Lugar program. It has taken 3 to 4 years to get this 
building off the ground. We have finally broken ground for it.
  What does it provide? An opportunity to properly store plutonium 
pits, critical components in any nuclear weapon, and once they are 
stored there, they [[Page H5873]] have strict verification and 
accountability of those.
  Finally, and this is not the least significant by any means, we have 
used Nunn-Lugar money to create an international science and technology 
center where former weapons scientists, nuclear scientists, and 
conventional weapons scientists are able to work in non-military 
programs. If we stop the money, those scientists will now divert their 
attention and their efforts in Russia and elsewhere, becoming potential 
proliferators themselves.
  Why would we want to stop all of these things which are in our 
interest? Why do we want to hurt ourselves, undercut our own national 
security in order to strike back at the Russians?
  Why do we want to punish the Kazakhstani, the Ukrainians, and the 
Belarussians for something the Russians may be doing wrong with respect 
to their CBW program?
  I share the gentleman's concern about their CBW program, but he is 
going about the punitive reaction to it in the wrong way.
  Vote to keep Nunn-Lugar intact. Vote against the Dornan amendment.
  Mr. BEREUTER. Mr. Chairman, this Member cannot understand the reason 
why my colleagues and good friends, the gentleman from California [Mr. 
Dornan] and the gentleman from Kansas [Mr. Tiahrt] would offer an 
amendment to fiscally fence off the Nunn-Lugar funds which are used to 
reduce the Russian nuclear weapons threat against the United States. It 
is in our national interest that these nuclear weapons be reduced. 
There certainly are reasons for the United States and the world to be 
concerned about Russian chemical and biological weapons programs and 
stockpiles, and we must use every productive means to reduce and 
eliminate them. But linking these American efforts to the Nunn-Lugar 
program is indeed the absolutely wrong and harmful linkage--harmful to 
the United States.
  Mr. Chairman, adopting the Dornan-Tiahrt amendment is indeed cutting 
off our nose to spite our face. The motive and concerns of our two 
colleagues offering the amendment are very appropriate, but their 
amendment couldn't be more dangerously wrong. There are several other 
United States funding programs for aiding Russia which could be used as 
leverage or linkage to show our very legitimate concerns about Russian 
biological and chemical programs and stockpiles.
  The CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from California [Mr. Dornan].
  The question was taken; and the Chairman announced that the ayes 
appeared to have it.


                             recorded vote
  Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 244, 
noes 180, not voting 10, as follows:
                             [Roll No. 369]
                               AYES--244
     Allard
     Andrews
     Archer
     Armey
     Bachus
     Baker (LA)
     Ballenger
     Barcia
     Barr
     Barrett (NE)
     Bartlett
     Barton
     Bass
     Bateman
     Bilirakis
     Bishop
     Bliley
     Blute
     Boehlert
     Boehner
     Bonilla
     Bono
     Browder
     Brownback
     Bryant (TN)
     Bunning
     Burr
     Burton
     Buyer
     Callahan
     Calvert
     Camp
     Canady
     Castle
     Chabot
     Chambliss
     Chenoweth
     Christensen
     Chrysler
     Clinger
     Coble
     Coburn
     Collins (GA)
     Combest
     Condit
     Cooley
     Cox
     Cramer
     Crane
     Crapo
     Cremeans
     Cubin
     Cunningham
     Danner
     de la Garza
     Deal
     DeFazio
     DeLay
     Deutsch
     Diaz-Balart
     Dickey
     Doolittle
     Dornan
     Dreier
     Duncan
     Dunn
     Ehlers
     Ehrlich
     Emerson
     English
     Ensign
     Everett
     Ewing
     Fawell
     Fields (TX)
     Flanagan
     Foley
     Forbes
     Fowler
     Fox
     Franks (CT)
     Frisa
     Funderburk
     Gallegly
     Ganske
     Gekas
     Geren
     Gilchrest
     Gillmor
     Gilman
     Goodlatte
     Goodling
     Goss
     Graham
     Greenwood
     Gunderson
     Gutknecht
     Hall (TX)
     Hancock
     Hansen
     Hastert
     Hastings (WA)
     Hayes
     Hayworth
     Hefley
     Heineman
     Herger
     Hilleary
     Hobson
     Hoekstra
     Hoke
     Horn
     Hostettler
     Hunter
     Hutchinson
     Hyde
     Inglis
     Istook
     Jacobs
     Johnson (CT)
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Kasich
     Kelly
     Kim
     King
     Kingston
     Klug
     Knollenberg
     Kolbe
     LaHood
     Largent
     Latham
     LaTourette
     Laughlin
     Lazio
     Leach
     Lewis (CA)
     Lewis (KY)
     Lightfoot
     Lincoln
     Linder
     Livingston
     LoBiondo
     Longley
     Lucas
     Manzullo
     Martini
     McCollum
     McCrery
     McDade
     McHugh
     McInnis
     McIntosh
     McKeon
     McNulty
     Menendez
     Metcalf
     Meyers
     Mica
     Miller (FL)
     Molinari
     Montgomery
     Moorhead
     Myers
     Nethercutt
     Neumann
     Ney
     Norwood
     Nussle
     Oxley
     Packard
     Parker
     Paxon
     Pombo
     Porter
     Portman
     Pryce
     Quillen
     Quinn
     Radanovich
     Rahall
     Ramstad
     Regula
     Riggs
     Roberts
     Roemer
     Rogers
     Rohrabacher
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roukema
     Royce
     Salmon
     Sanford
     Saxton
     Scarborough
     Schaefer
     Schiff
     Seastrand
     Sensenbrenner
     Shadegg
     Shaw
     Shuster
     Skeen
     Skelton
     Smith (MI)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smith (TX)
     Smith (WA)
     Solomon
     Souder
     Spence
     Stearns
     Stockman
     Stump
     Stupak
     Talent
     Tate
     Tauzin
     Taylor (MS)
     Taylor (NC)
     Thomas
     Thornberry
     Thurman
     Tiahrt
     Torkildsen
     Traficant
     Upton
     Vucanovich
     Waldholtz
     Walker
     Walsh
     Wamp
     Watts (OK)
     Weldon (FL)
     Weldon (PA)
     Weller
     Whitfield
     Wicker
     Wolf
     Young (AK)
     Young (FL)
     Zeliff
     Zimmer
                               NOES--180
     Abercrombie
     Ackerman
     Baesler
     Baldacci
     Barrett (WI)
     Becerra
     Beilenson
     Bentsen
     Bereuter
     Berman
     Bevill
     Bilbray
     Bonior
     Borski
     Brewster
     Brown (CA)
     Brown (FL)
     Brown (OH)
     Bryant (TX)
     Bunn
     Cardin
     Chapman
     Clay
     Clayton
     Clement
     Clyburn
     Coleman
     Collins (IL)
     Collins (MI)
     Conyers
     Costello
     Coyne
     DeLauro
     Dellums
     Dicks
     Dingell
     Dixon
     Doggett
     Dooley
     Doyle
     Durbin
     Edwards
     Engel
     Eshoo
     Evans
     Farr
     Fattah
     Fazio
     Fields (LA)
     Filner
     Flake
     Foglietta
     Ford
     Frank (MA)
     Franks (NJ)
     Frelinghuysen
     Frost
     Furse
     Gejdenson
     Gibbons
     Gonzalez
     Gordon
     Green
     Gutierrez
     Hall (OH)
     Hamilton
     Harman
     Hastings (FL)
     Hefner
     Hilliard
     Hinchey
     Holden
     Houghton
     Hoyer
     Jackson-Lee
     Jefferson
     Johnson (SD)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Johnston
     Kanjorski
     Kaptur
     Kennedy (MA)
     Kennedy (RI)
     Kennelly
     Kildee
     Klink
     LaFalce
     Lantos
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lipinski
     Lofgren
     Lowey
     Luther
     Maloney
     Manton
     Markey
     Martinez
     Mascara
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McDermott
     McHale
     McKinney
     Meehan
     Meek
     Mfume
     Miller (CA)
     Mineta
     Minge
     Mink
     Moakley
     Mollohan
     Moran
     Morella
     Murtha
     Nadler
     Neal
     Oberstar
     Obey
     Olver
     Ortiz
     Orton
     Owens
     Pallone
     Pastor
     Payne (NJ)
     Payne (VA)
     Pelosi
     Peterson (FL)
     Peterson (MN)
     Petri
     Pickett
     Pomeroy
     Poshard
     Rangel
     Reed
     Reynolds
     Richardson
     Rivers
     Rose
     Roth
     Roybal-Allard
     Rush
     Sabo
     Sanders
     Sawyer
     Schroeder
     Schumer
     Scott
     Serrano
     Shays
     Sisisky
     Skaggs
     Slaughter
     Spratt
     Stark
     Stenholm
     Stokes
     Studds
     Tanner
     Tejeda
     Thompson
     Thornton
     Torres
     Torricelli
     Towns
     Tucker
     Velazquez
     Vento
     Visclosky
     Volkmer
     Ward
     Waters
     Watt (NC)
     Waxman
     Wise
     Woolsey
     Wyden
     Wynn
                             NOT VOTING--10
     Baker (CA)
     Boucher
     Davis
     Gephardt
     Kleczka
     Myrick
     White
     Williams
     Wilson
     Yates
  Mr. SHAYS changed his vote from ``aye'' to ``no.''
  Mr. KING, Mrs. THURMAN, and Mr. CRAMER changed their vote from ``no'' 
to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The CHAIRMAN. The Chair has been made aware that the gentleman from 
Indiana [Mr. Hamilton] will not offer his amendment. Therefore, it is 
now in order to consider amendment No. 1, printed in subpart A of part 
1 of the report.
  (Ms. FURSE asked and was given permission to speak out of order.)


                          personal explanation
  Ms. FURSE. Mr. Chairman, due to personal family matters on Thursday 
last, I was unable to cast a vote on rollcall 366. I would like the 
Record to reflect that had I been present I would have voted ``no.''


                    amendment offered by Mr. kasich
  Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I offer an amendment.
  The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
  The text of the amendment is as follows:
       Amendment offered by Mr. Kasich: Strike out section 141 
     (page 21, lines 2 through 15) and insert in lieu thereof the 
     following:
     SEC. 141. LIMITATION ON AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT FUNDING.
       The amount provided in section 103 for procurement of 
     aircraft for the Air Force is [[Page H5874]] hereby reduced 
     by $553,000,000. None of the amount appropriated pursuant to 
     authorization of appropriations in section 103 may be 
     obligated for procurement of long-lead items for procurement 
     of B-2 aircraft beyond the 20 deployable aircraft and one 
     test aircraft authorized by law before the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
  The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from Ohio [Mr. 
Kasich] and a Member opposed, the gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. 
Spence], will each be recognized for 30 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman form Ohio [Mr. Kasich].
  Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent that my time be 
divided equally with my cosponsor, the gentleman from California [Mr. 
Dellums], and that he be permitted to control that time.
  The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from 
Ohio?
  There was no objection.
  The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from California [Mr. Dellums] will be 
recognized for 15 minutes and the gentleman from Ohio [Mr. Kasich] will 
be recognized for 15 minutes.
  Mr. SPENCE. Mr. Chairman, I yield for the purposes of debate 15 
minutes to the gentleman from Missouri [Mr. Skelton], and I ask 
unanimous consent he be permitted to control that time.
  The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from 
South Carolina?
  There was no objection.
  The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Missouri [Mr. Skelton] will be 
recognized for 15 minutes, and the gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. 
Spence] will be recognized for 15 minutes.
  Mr. DELLUMS Mr. Chairman, in order to begin this debate, I yield 
myself 5 minutes.
  Mr. Chairman, this is an important debate.
                              {time}  1915
  The bill that comes to us contains $553 million to begin a journey 
that will ultimately cost the taxpayers $31.5 billion.
  The question is why, why do we need to put in excess of $500 million 
in this bill to begin long lead for 2 additional B-2 bombers that 
ultimately is a program for 20 additional? Question one: Is it because 
the Pentagon wants it? The answer is ``no.'' The Secretary of Defense, 
the Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and an independent study done 
by the Institute for Defense Analysis and the Role and Mission 
Commission study all said the following: ``No, we don't need it. No, we 
don't want it, and, yes, there are alternatives.''
  Second question: Do we need this bomber for the purposes of safety? 
Interesting. The study done by the Institute for Defense Analysis drew 
the following conclusion: that if we took precision guided munitions, 
those smart weapons that the American people saw on C-SPAN when we were 
engaged in the war in the Persian Gulf, that if we expanded that 
inventory by 200 percent, that we would reduce the aircraft lost in our 
inventory by 40 percent. They went further and said, ``And if you spend 
the money to build 20 more B-2's, you reduce the aircraft loss by 8 
percent.''
  So if it is a question of safety, you do not spend $31.5 billion 
building a cold war relic, Mr. Chairman, because the precision guided 
munitions put more munitions on the target at less risk because you are 
not flying over the target, you are standing off, and at cheaper cost.
  I would remind my colleagues that all of them have been debating 
budget balance and deficit reduction.
  The third argument, Mr. Chairman, is this: Is this for national 
security needs? Remember, colleagues, the B-2 bomber was designed in 
the context of the cold war. It was designed to do one thing: fly over 
the Soviet Union and drop nuclear weapons one time and get the hell 
out.
  This is not the cold war. I hope we have moved beyond the insanity of 
contemplating nuclear war so we want to fix this weapons system up for 
a conventional approach, but we already have 20 of them.
  This is a subsonic plane. You may not see it on radar because it is 
stealthy, but no one said it was not vulnerable. You can see this 
weapon in the daytime. It probably only will fly at night.
  Secondly, if you fly it, it only has one purpose: to be there for the 
first few hours, the first couple days. It is not designed to fly 
around a theater forever. It flies in and gets out after it suppresses 
air defenses. We have F-117's that also have that capability. We have 
wild weasel missiles that can also search out and destroy.
  Mr. Chairman, we do not need to go down a $31.5 billion road, because 
the Pentagon does not want it, because it is not there for safety, it 
is an expensive weapon, it is not necessary for national security.
  So why do we have it? Because we are going to generate employment? We 
can generate thousands of jobs with $31.5 billion. We can enhance the 
quality of our lives with $31.5 billion.
  Why is it that distinguished and learned people have said we do not 
need to go down this road? The gentleman from Ohio and this gentleman 
are simply saying, in conclusion, save the American taxpayers the $19.7 
billion it costs to buy and equip this plane, the $11.8 billion it 
costs to operate and maintain this plane.
  Let us take the $550 million, take it out of this budget where it is 
wasteful, unnecessary and dangerous, and place it to reduce the 
deficit.
  For those of you who have been arguing pain and human misery across 
the panorama of American interest in the country, you ought to be 
willing to join us on the basis of integrity, on the basis of dignity 
and on the basis of honest analysis. You do not need this plane, but we 
certainly do need the money.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SPENCE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  (Mr. SPENCE asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. SPENCE. Mr. Chairman, I ask the <strong>House</strong> if I might apologize for 
making a personal comment at this time.
  But I would not be able to take part in these discussions, indeed I 
would not be alive if it were not for the fact, as many of your know, I 
received a double lung transplant a few years ago, and the mother of 
the young man whose lungs I have is presently in my office visiting 
with me for the first time, and I just wanted to pay respect to her.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the committee-recommended position 
on the B-2 stealth bomber and in opposition to the amendment offered by 
my colleagues, Mr. Kasich and Mr. Dellums.
  The committee arrived at its position endorsing the option of 
additional B-2's after receiving testimony from senior military 
officials regarding U.S. bomber capabilities and long-term plans. 
First, we were told that the current bomber force structure of 
approximately 100 aircraft is well below the number required to carry 
out the national military strategy.
  Second, we learned that the Department's plan to ``swing'' bombers 
between regional conflicts is untested and risky. Frankly, it is 
unworkable.
  And, third, due to the on-going closure of the B-2 production line, 
we learned that we must act now if we wish to preserve the option to 
build more B-2's beyond the 20 combat-capable aircraft already approved 
by the Congress.
  Halting production of the B-2 now, after spending billions to develop 
this revolutionary aircraft, makes neither military nor economic sense. 
Procuring additional B-2 bombers is admittedly an expensive 
proposition. Maintaining America's technological cutting-edge 
superiority is never cheap. However, as seven former Secretaries of 
Defense stated in their January 4, 1995 letter to the President, ``The 
B-2 * * * remains the most cost-effective means of rapidly projecting 
force over great distances. Its range will enable it to reach any point 
on earth within hours after launch. * * * Its payload and array of 
munitions will permit it to destroy numerous time-sensitive targets in 
a single sortie. And perhaps most importantly, its low-observable 
characteristics will allow it to reach intended targets without fear of 
interception.''
  The administration's opposition to additional B-2's, which has 
manifested itself in the recent ``bomber study,'' is inconsistent with 
real world operational requirements. We ought to heed the advice of 
seven distinguished and [[Page H5875]] bipartisan Secretaries of 
Defense and continue low-rate production of the B-2. It is not an 
inexpensive proposition--but it may cost us more in the long run if we 
do not seize this opportunity today.
  Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, this body through the years has made many important 
decisions. It has sent signals throughout the world by its vote.
  In 1939, this Chamber voted against a $5 million appropriation for 
the harbor in Guam. The empire of Japan took that as a signal that we 
would not defend the Pacific.
  What kind of a message would we send if we do not produce and 
continue producing at least 2 B-2 bombers which are the state-of-the-
art weapons systems?
  This is a very significant decision. It is one that we must take very 
seriously and one that we must understand will make a great deal of 
difference in deterrence and in conflict, heaven forbid, should that 
come.
  Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from California [Mr. 
Fazio].
  Mr. FAZIO of California. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the 
Dellums-Kasich amendment to the defense authorization bill, and I urge 
my colleagues to support continued funding for the B-2 Stealth bomber.
  We live in uncertain times. Although we cannot predict the course of 
international events, we can ensure that we have, at our disposal, the 
resources to protect our vital, national security interests.
  Recent events in Bosnia provide just one example of our continued 
need to maintain a flexible, advanced fighting force.
  The B-2 Stealth bomber is an integral component of the fighting force 
of the future--the tactical component of our commitment to military 
``readiness.''
  But it is more than that.
  With the aid of a revolutionary design, the B-2 is ready to strike 
for freedom at a moments notice, across vast distances, with deadly 
accuracy.
  And, as we bring our troops home from forward bases overseas, we are 
compelled to consider our ability to initiate military operations from 
American soil. The B-2's long-range capabilities make this necessity a 
reality.
  From a technical standpoint, the B-2 represents an unparalleled 
achievement.
  In the past, we augmented our fighting forces with an entire 
battalion of escorts, radar jammers, and suppressors.
  ``The B-2,'' noted Air Force Chief of Staff General Merrill A. 
McPeak, ``offers a much more satisfying and elegant solution: avoid 
detection, and tip the scales back in favor of flexibility and 
offensive punch.''
  In light of our renewed commitment to fiscal responsibility and 
deficit reduction, some have questioned our ability to continue 
investing in this program. We are right to re-assess our priorities, 
and subject the defense budget to the same careful scrutiny we bring to 
other segments of the federal budget.
  But, for the sake of short-term fiscal expediency, we should not 
sacrifice our long-term national security interests. The B-2 program is 
the capstone of a $45 billion dollar investment.
  If we back track now, we will undercut this nation's advanced 
technology base and risk tying our hands in the event of future 
conflict.
  The fair-minded Commission on Roles and Missions--assessing the need 
for continued investment in the B-2 program in a preliminary report--
warned against just such a short-sighted approach.
  The Report states: ``. . . the B-2 will likely be in service for 40 
to 50 years. It is not possible to predict what requirements will exist 
that far in the future and we are concerned that tomorrow's commanders 
should not be deprived of adequate numbers of bombers because of a 
decision made today without the most careful deliberation.''
  Finally, Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out that the B-2 
represents a way for us to leverage our resources. Just one B-2 bomber, 
at a cost of $1.1 billion can pack the same punch as a much larger 
current conventional force--some estimates suggest a force as large as 
75 aircraft.
  We need to benefit from the investment already made in the B-2. 
Defeat the Dellums-Kasich amendment.
  Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Iowa [Mr. Ganske].
  Mr. GANSKE. Mr. Chairman, the <strong>House</strong> Committee on National Security 
leadership added $553 million for the long lead procurement of 2 new B-
2 bombers, piercing the cap of 20 B-2's in current law. These 2 planes 
would be purchased at a cost and a rate that is part of a 20-plane 
proposal which would lead to a total of 40 B-2's.
  While there will be, no doubt, a certain amount of debate of how much 
this investment strategy will cost, the only figure that is truly 
relevant is how much money this decision is going to cost the U.S. 
taxpayer. According to conservative U.S. Air Force estimates, 20 more 
B-2's would cost an additional $19.7 billion, and $11.8 billion in a 
20-year operational cost. This adds up to $31.5 billion total.
  There is no money planned in anyone's budget to pay for the out-year 
costs that will be forced by this decision. The only way we will be 
able to afford the planes will be either by taking a major step 
backwards in deficit reduction or by squeezing out programs that have 
been given a higher priority by the military, such as the F-22, 
destroyers, tilt rotor aircraft and precision guided munitions and so 
forth.
  Witnesses on behalf of the Air Force, both in civilian leadership and 
members of the uniformed operational ranks, have repeatedly testified 
that they do not want to purchase any more B-2's.
  An independent cost-effectiveness analysis by Air Force bomber 
programs, conducted by the Institute for Defense Analysis, concluded 
that money would be better spent on precision guided munitions and 
conventional mission upgrades of B-1 bombers.
  Let me address this issue of this study. Paul Kaminsky, 
undersecretary of defense for acquisition and technology, said the 
results of the 6-month-long IDA study do not make the case for buying 
more B-2's. Instead, they point to a much greater cost effectiveness 
that can be derived from advanced and accurate weapons to leverage not 
only the bombers but the rest of our tactical forces.
  Computer modeling and simulation has shown doubling the current 
inventory of precision accurate weapons at a cost of $13 billion would 
result in a 60 percent decrease in aircraft losses in comparison to 8 
percent fewer losses with the B-2.
  Clearly, additional investment in precision weapons is exponentially 
more effective and significantly less costly than B-2's.
  These studies show additional B-2's result in a big cost increase for 
bomber forces and a tiny performance increase. The IDA study was not 
flawed. It did address a no warning scenario, and the Roles and 
Missions Commission independently reviewed and agreed with the study.
  Mr. Chairman, I strongly advise my colleagues to vote for the Kasich 
amendment.
                              {time}  1930
  Mr. STUMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Washington [Ms. Dunn].
  Ms. DUNN of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I rise this evening to discuss 
with my colleagues the importance of long-range bombers to our Nation's 
security now and in the future. For 40 years the United States relied 
on forward deployment, the placement of large forces on bases around 
the world, outposts, if my colleagues will, for the defense of freedom.
  With the decline in defense spending and the withdrawal of our forces 
from overseas bases, the United States now must rely on smaller 
military forces operating principally from North America, in effect a 
home-based military force.
  For example, in the last 6 years alone the United States Air Force 
has reduced its major overseas bases from 38 to 15, Mr. Chairman, a 61-
percent decrease. Let me repeat, a 61 percent decrease. Unfortunately, 
our global responsibilities have not decreased 61 percent. In fact, our 
need for global presence is growing. We are the world's 
[[Page H5876]] one and only superpower in a world full of conflict and 
uncertainty.
  In addition to regional conflicts we know that more and more 
irresponsible nations are acquiring weapons of mass destruction, a real 
and significant threat to United States security. Now, as the only 
superpower, our current strategy calls for American power to be 
projected abroad rather than based abroad.
  Therefore, we simply must be able to project increased conventional 
power from a smaller number of systems. The only answer is the B-2 
stealth bomber, the only way we can quickly and secretly project real 
power around the globe.
  Listen to Air Force General Mike Loh:
       The role of the bomber has been elevated, not diminished, 
     by the end of the Cold War. Nothing else has the range and 
     payload of the bomber or the sense of immediacy able to 
     strike in 10 to 12 hours anywhere in the world.
  Remember, the B-2 only requires two pilots and it costs less to 
operate than any other means of significant power projection such as 
aircraft carriers or Army divisions.
  Mr. Chairman, let us support more B-2s for our Nation's security. 
Vote against the Kasich amendment.
  Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Massachusetts [Mr. Markey].
  Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Chairman:
     B-2's or not B-2: Once again, that is the question.
     Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
     the slings and arrows of outrageous expense,
     Or to take arms against a sea of deficits,
     And by opposing end them. To cut; to spend;
     No more; and by a cut to say we end
     the heartache and a thousand cost overruns
     That B-2 is heir to. 'Tis a consummation
     Devoutly to be wished. To cut; to spend;
     To spend? Perchance add-on! Ay, there's the rub;
     For in those 20 add-ons what new costs may come,
     when we have shuffled off the cap,
     Must give us pause. There's the respect
     that makes calamity of continuing.
     For would Stealth bear the whips and scorns of time,
     the lack of mission, the inevitable delays,
     The available alternatives, and the cuts
     That must be made for Budget Target's sake.
     When we ourselves might today Stealth's termination make
     With a bare majority. Who would new tax burdens bear,
     to pay its 31 billion dollar pricetag,
     when the dread of a corporate welfare program,
     A flying Bat-winged bomber whose cost per pound,
     Is that of gold, puzzles the mind
     And makes us rather keep those bombers that we now have
     Than fly to others we want not of?
     Thus conscience should make cautious legislators of us all;
     And thus the hue of B-2 boosterism
     Must be replaced with the sober case of thought,
     And this enterprise of great pith and moment,
     Be halted now before it further proceeds,
     A handsome bomber, yes, but better
     No more to be.
  Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from California [Mr. Dornan].
  (Mr. DORNAN asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. DORNAN. Mr. Chairman, having flown the B-2 May 1, of course I 
rise in support of the great spirit aircraft that I myself named.
  Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Kansas [Mr. Brownback].
  Mr. BROWNBACK. Mr. Chairman, this is daunting to follow the gentleman 
from California [Mr. Dornan]. I just rise in support of this amendment 
and simply state this:
  I support a strong defense. I have military establishments in my 
district. I think it is critical; I think it is the reason we created 
the Federal Government. It is to provide for a common defense amongst 
several other items as well, but clearly one of the key roles and 
missions we created for a federal government was to provide for a 
common defense. We need to do that. But this one does not make sense to 
me.
  First of all, it is when the military itself says, ``We don't need 
this aircraft, and we can put it, and should put it, for other uses,'' 
and that is what it seems to me we ought to do.
  That is why I am supportive of Mr. Kasich's amendment in that regard. 
I think this is a wonderful airplane. It just costs too much, and it is 
not in the priority system of what we need in this country today.
  Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, in all of this paraphrasing of Shakespeare 
I can only say, ``Me thinkest thou protesteth too much.''
  With that, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from California [Ms. 
Harman].
  (Ms. HARMAN asked and was given permission to revise and extend her 
remarks.)
  Ms. HARMAN. Mr. Chairman, it is tough to differ with friends, 
aspiring playwrights, and the Pentagon, but I am strongly opposed to 
the amendment offered by Messrs. Kasich and Dellums. To my passionate 
and effective friend, the gentleman from California [Mr. Dellums], I 
say, ``You move me every time you speak.'' But I believe that the 
Californians I represent believe that the B-2 bomber is the right 
weapon for the expected war fighting contingencies of the next century.
  Mr. Chairman, its utility has already been demonstrated. The number 
of any aircraft required to deliver an equivalent bomb load is 75 times 
greater than what a single B-2 can do. Fewer pilots, crew, and aircraft 
are put at risk with the B-2.
  Its stealth capability ensures that it will strike its target. Its 
superior range and bomb load make it clear that the B-2 is better than 
a stand-off missile which still needs a platform that can deliver it 
within range--usually over enemy territory.
  Last, it is critical to understand the problems posed by the current 
mix of our bomber fleet which, by the year 2010, may include B-52H's 
that are more than 50 years old, and B-1B's that will be 23 years old. 
The B-2 will bridge the retirement of those aircraft and provide the 
deterrence necessary in the first few decades of the 21st century.
  Any successor bomber to the B-2, and I predict we will want one in 
several years if this program goes down today, will have to incorporate 
the stealth technology that is the heart of the B-2. As such, it is 
critical to protect the industrial and intellectual base which designed 
and manufactured the processes and materials central to the future 
stealth breakthroughs.
  I have visited the B-2 factory in California, seen the B-2, climbed 
on its extraordinary wing, sat in the cockpit and met with 
representatives of literally hundreds of firms that designed and built 
it. The talented and highly skilled work force for this aircraft talks 
in great praise of what it has done, and that praise is well-deserved. 
It would be tragic to lose those individuals and the skills they 
represent.
  Mr. Chairman, the bill's modest level of authorized funding will 
protect a unique capability that would be difficult to recreate if it 
were lost as a result of this amendment.
  I urge my colleagues to reject the Kasich-Dellums amendment.
  Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Minnesota [Mr. Luther].
  (Mr. LUTHER asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. LUTHER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Kasich amendment 
to stop the production of additional B-2 bombers.
  As I listened to this debate as a new Member of this body, what comes 
to my mind is that this is exactly how our country got to the point of 
being nearly $5 trillion in debt. Every spending program has its 
merits, and a case can be made for this proposal like any other 
proposal. But the fact is that we, as a nation, cannot afford this 
expenditure, and we who serve here have to have the judgment and common 
sense to make cuts wherever we can in the military budget, along with 
other budgets, in order to make certain that we balance the overall 
Federal budget.
  The military spending bill before us contains over $500 million 
beyond what the administration requested for continued B-2 bomber 
production, and it repeals the current limits on the number and cost of 
B-2 bombers. With the budget problems we face, we cannot justify 
approving funding that our own military experts believe is unnecessary. 
By eliminating additional B-2's, is Kasich amendment has the potential 
to make an enormous reduction in the deficit without compromising 
military readiness or support for our troops. [[Page H5877]] 
  Mr. Chairman, we can save billions of dollars over the years ahead by 
maintaining 20 B-2's, but not expanding the production of B-2 bombers. 
The time has come for us to vote for fiscal responsibility and support 
the Kasich amendment.
  Mr. STUMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Texas, Mr. Sam Johnson.
  Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition 
to the Dellums amendment.
  First, the funding for the B-2 falls well within the spending cap 
imposed by the Committee on the Budget. It does not break the budget.
  Second, the B-2 is a necessity. I have experienced firsthand the 
dangers of flying into a helpfully defended area, being tracked by 
radar and shot down. As a matter of fact, I was shot down in Vietnam 
because our Government, this body, refused to supply us with the right 
airplanes or munitions. In fact, we did not have munitions most of the 
time. I flew an airplane that the gun sight was really just a piece of 
chewing gum that did not move, the gun did not fire, a product of the 
McNamara era which he has admitted to.
  The B-2 gives us an ability to fly a strategic bomber into a defended 
area undetected by radar without fighter escort. This is a state-of-
the-art technology that no other country can match.
  Third, those who oppose the B-2 have said we can use old B-52's and 
B-1 bombers instead of B-2's. As my colleagues know, the cost of flying 
those old airplanes is $6.4 billion more.
  More importantly, relying on the older airplanes through the year 
2030, as opponents have planned, is risky. By that time the B-52 will 
be nearly 70 years old, and, if we apply that same 70-year timeframe, a 
1918 World War I biplane would have been a front line plane in Desert 
Storm.
  Support our Nation's Armed Forces. Vote against the Dellums 
amendment.
  Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from New 
Hampshire [Mr. Bass].
  Mr. BASS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Kasich amendment. A 
few weeks ago we passed a resolution, an historic resolution, and I 
stood before you and said we are now going to have a balanced budget by 
the year 2002. Yet a few short weeks later, on the second major 
authorization that this Congress takes up, we now stand here to 
consider a dramatic expansion in an existing weapons procurement 
program. Indeed, we are standing here on the threshold of authorizing 
an additional $553 million to pay for a bomber program that has not 
been in the existing budget.
  This budget-busting program has the potential to add over $30 billion 
to the defense budget. Now, we are going to be dealing over the next 7 
years, if we stick with our budget resolution, with a $270 billion 
defense spending cap, and we are going to have to make some pretty hard 
choices. I for one have stood forth and made hard choices across the 
board, and this is a hard choice to make as well. I believe like 
everyone else we need a strong defense. But if we vote to double the 
size of the B-2 bomber program today, and this occurs, and we spend an 
additional $30 billion, we are going to make the process of making 
choices between the other programs, the F-22, the V-22, the DDG, much, 
much more difficult.
  My friends, we ought to establish our strategic priorities now and 
not vote for $553 million to keep a line warm while we try to decide 
what our country is going to do in the future. The Committee on 
National Security should decide what our long-term strategic objectives 
should be within the $270 billion fixed budget that we have for defense 
spending, and then make the tough choices now, and not put the long 
tail off until next year or the year after.
  I rise in strong support of the Kasich amendment, as a strong 
proponent of defense spending, responsible defense spending, and a 
balanced budget by the year 2002.
  Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Texas [Mr. Frost].
  (Mr. FROST asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. FROST. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment being 
offered by the gentleman from Ohio [Mr. Kasich].
  I was disappointed when Congress voted to cap the B-2 bomber program 
at 20 planes. I did not agree with that decision then, and I'm 
delighted that the National Security Committee has brought a defense 
authorization bill to the floor of this <strong>House</strong> that repeals the cap, and 
authorizes funds to continue production of this important strategic 
bomber.
  The B-2 is an essential component of our overall national defense 
capability. In fact, with each passing day, the need for the B-2 
increases as our bomber fleet ages.
  By 2010, any surviving B-52s will be over 50 years old and will 
likely be retired. The B-1 fleet will be 23 years old and declining in 
number due to attrition. It's clear that augmenting the bomber fleet 
with additional B-2s will be necessary in order to maintain a credible 
bomber capability.
  Some have questioned whether a significant bomber capability is even 
needed in the post-cold-war era. Yet, this implies that the post-cold 
war world is somehow a less dangerous world.
  The events of the last few years since the wall came down in Berlin 
and the Soviet empire began crumbling have vividly demonstrated that 
the world continues to be one where hazards abound. The Persian Gulf 
War certainly emphasized the point that the U.S. can never let down her 
guard, and that threats to our security interests may pop up at any 
time throughout the world.
  It's imperative that we maintain all aspects of our military 
readiness in order to respond to threats. And maintaining readiness 
requires that we continue to modernize our bomber fleet with the best, 
most up-to-date equipment we can. The B-2 is a quality aircraft that 
provides stealthiness, long-range flying capability, and the ability to 
deliver large payloads, on target.
  Mr. Chairman, the B-2 provides our nation with important security. We 
should, we must, move forward and adopt the position taken in this 
defense authorization bill. I urge my colleagues to reject the Kasich 
amendment, and support the B-2 bomber.
  Mr. STUMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Maryland [Mr. Gilchrest].
  (Mr. GILCHREST asked and was given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.)
  Mr. GILCHREST. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
  Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Michigan [Mr. Conyers].
  (Mr. CONYERS asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Chairman, it is with great pleasure I rise in 
support of this amendment, admiring the arguments put forth by the 
gentleman from California [Mr. Dellums] in support of his amendment.
  Mr. STUMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from California [Mr. McKeon].
  (Mr. McKEON asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. McKEON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to the 
amendment.
  Mr. STUMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Louisiana [Mr. Livingston], the chairman of the Committee on 
Appropriations.
  (Mr. LIVINGSTON asked and was given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.)
  Mr. LIVINGSTON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the Kasich-
Dellums amendment to lift the cap on B-2 bomber production and delete 
funds in this bill for the B-2. The first responsibility of Congress 
under the Constitution of the United States is indeed to provide for 
adequate defense of this Nation.
  We are in this position today because some years ago a decision was 
made to cap production on the B-2 at 20 bombers. That decision was 
based wholly on the judgment of the then political leaders in the prior 
Congress that additional production lacked political support in the 
Congress. It certainly had no, and I emphasize ``no,'' relation to the 
military needs of this Nation. That [[Page H5878]] is what we have come 
here today to rectify.
  Political decisions made, whether it by vote counters or bean 
counters, do not hide the fact that today the United States lacks a 
capable bomber force to protect this country. This decision forced 
military planners to walk away from the most effective weapon in our 
arsenal to project force at the most effective cost. This decision does 
not hide the fact that should we accept the Kasich-Dellums amendment, 
that if we do, that we could fight the next Desert Storm with a 70-
year-old bomber. Does anyone in this <strong>House</strong> want to run that risk? Does 
anyone in this <strong>House</strong> wish to rely on such weapons to protect our 
troops? Does anyone here want to protect this country with 70-year-old 
tanks or ships or planes? I do not think so.
  We are retiring the F-117's that served us so admirably in Desert 
Storm. The B-1 was of no use in the last war. Why would anyone think in 
the next one we will be any more likely to require the service of the 
B-1? Finally, how much could we rely on the old B-52, the 70-year-old 
granddaddy of bomber fleet? We cannot.
  I urge this <strong>House</strong> to proceed with the development and procurement of 
what will be one of the most critical assets we have to take with us 
into the next century. We have no other weapon that combines the 
precision of the stealth and the firepower of the B-2.
  Mr. Chairman, I urge this body to reject this amendment and make a 
decision not based on political calculation, but on the necessity for 
the national security.
  Mr. Chairman, earlier this year, seven of our former secretaries of 
defense carefully crafted and delivered a letter to President Clinton. 
That letter was in support of continued production of the B-2 stealth 
bomber.
  The letter said:
       We are writing you to express our concern about the 
     impending termination of the B-2 bomber production line. 
     After spending over $20 billion to develop this revolutionary 
     aircraft, current plans call for closing out the program with 
     a purchase of only twenty bombers. We believe this plan does 
     not adequately consider the challenges to U.S. security that 
     may arise it the next century, and the central role that the 
     B-2 may play in meeting those challenges.
  The letter goes on to discuss the nation's long-range bomber force: 
95 B-52's that are all over 30 years old, and 96 B-1's that were 
procured as an interim bomber until B-2's were available. This, the 
secretaries said, ``is not enough to meet future requirements, 
particularly in view of the attrition that would occur in a conflict 
and the eventual need to retire the B-52's.''
  Former secretaries--Melvin Laird, Donald Rumsfeld, Caspar Weinberger, 
James Schlesinger, Harold Brown, Frank Carlucci, and Dick Cheney--end 
the letter by saying:
       The logic of continuing low-rate production of the B-2 thus 
     is both fiscal; and operational. It is already apparent that 
     the end of the Cold War was neither the end of history nor 
     the end of danger. We hope it also will not be the end of the 
     B-2. We urge you to consider the purchase of more such 
     aircraft while the option still exists.
  My esteemed colleagues, I concur with this well thought-out letter 
and the conclusions voiced by these gentlemen.
  Please join me in supporting continued production of the B-2 stealth 
bomber.
  Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
California [Mr. Cunningham].
  Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Chairman, on 10 May, flying a flack suppression 
mission just south of Hanoi, 35 aircraft went in to strike with cluster 
bombs to knock out SAM's and AAA's. We lost four F-4 Phantoms on that 
strike. Two of those air crews did not come back. Our B-52's over 
Hanoi, we lost hundreds of air crew, and what price do we put on 
that?''
  Not one single Member that has fought in combat in the air has 
supported this amendment because they know the value and the expense of 
human life. And, yes, there is life at risk. Remember when we hit 
Qadhafi and we had to rely on Margaret Thatcher to launch out of 
England? We even had to fly around our allied bases. We would not have 
to do that.
  Remeber when Saddam Hussein in his last foray came across and the 
President had to deploy three carrier air battle groups? Do you know 
what that cost was? Billions of dollars. You have the threat of a B-2, 
you will not need those forces to strike there. It will prevent it, and 
it will save times.
  Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself 30 seconds.
  Mr. Chairman, first, I would like to say in response to my 
distinguished colleague from California, that is precisely the argument 
that this gentleman is making, an argument that was made in the 
independent bomber study. Precision guided munitions in the stand-off 
mode does not allow the plane or the pilot to be vulnerable. That is 
exactly the point.
  The gentleman waxed eloquently in support of the argument that this 
gentleman makes, and that was eloquently argued by the Institute for 
Defense Analysis.
  If you are talking about saving lives, it is not about building the 
B-2, it is about expanding the inventory of the precision guided 
munitions.
  Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Washington [Mr. Dicks].
  (Mr. DICKS asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. DICKS. Mr. Chairman, first of all, everybody, I believe the 
Cominsky study was fatally flawed when it said we are going to have 14 
days of warning. We did not have 14 days at Pearl Harbor. We did not 
have 14 days in Korea. We did not have 14 days in Desert Storm and 
Desert Shield. What we are talking about tonight is real value. The 
stealth bomber, with smart conventional weapons, can be enormously 
effective.
  Look at this comparison. On that side of the chart we have bombers 
with unguided munitions versus what we can do with the B-2. And this 
package over here, 76 air crew at risk, 37 aircraft, could not get the 
job done, because they were nonstealthy. The F-117's in the gulf war 
could go into the targets, knock out the most heavily defended targets, 
and our kids came back alive.
  When we are talking about stealth technology, it means with a bomber 
like the B-2 you can go a third of the way around the world and attack 
Saddam's division coming in. The Rand study showed that with the B-2 
and the centrifuged weapon, three B-2 companies could have knocked out 
46 percent of Saddam's mechanized vehicles before they got into Kuwait. 
Now, that is enormous, revolutionary capability.
  The gentleman talks about stand-off weapons, but he does not tell you 
that those stand-off weapons cost $1.2 million apiece. The weapons on 
the B-2 JDAM cost $25,000. A precision guided munition, 40 times as 
expensive. That is why it makes sense to buy the B-2, and now is the 
time to buy it. The line is open. If we shut the line down and come 
back to it, it is going to cost $10 billion just to reopen the line. 
That does not make any sense.
  Then you have got the cost of these expensive stand-off weapons. You 
have got to think about it, who are we sending out there? We are 
sending our own kids. Wouldn't you rather have the kids in a B-2 or in 
the F-117 or a stealth aircraft, rather than having them go in with a 
B-1 or B-52 that is going to get shot down? They are nonstealthy. They 
cannot penetrate. And that is why it is an ineffective bomber force. 
Eight secretaries of defense, including Dick Cheney, who made the 
decision to take it to 20, wrote President Clinton not to shut down 
this line.
  This is the most important defense vote we are going to make. If you 
want to reorganize priorities in the defense budget, let us do it. Let 
us get rid of some of these things over here that cannot get the job 
done, and buy the new weapon with the new technology that can get it 
done. That is what we are talking about here. We are talking about 
advanced technology that will save American lives, and actually will 
save dollars too. Because if we do not do it, we are going to pay a 
terrible price in life and in loss of bombers because they are not 
stealthy.
  Mr. STUMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
California [Mr. Hunter], the chairman of the Subcommittee on Military 
Procurement.
  Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Mr. Chairman, I think it is important for use to recognize why we 
should spend 1 percent of the defense budget each year of B-2's.
  Mr. Chairman, we are back where we started. We look at the last 
week's Time Magazine and we see Scott O'Grady on the front of it. This 
is why [[Page H5879]] we started this program. Because in Vietnam we 
lost 2,300 Scott O'Gradys, and we lost them to the most important 
revolutionary technology development in this century in war fighting, 
the radar.
                              {time}  2000
  That radar, when coupled with surface-to-air missiles, took down 
thousands of American planes in Vietnam. But we are the Americans. We 
say we are creative. We are innovative. And we got together, Democrats 
and Republicans, on the political side, our best scientists throughout 
this country, and we built an aircraft that could evade the SAM 
missiles and could be invisible to the radar. And that is what the B-2 
is. And because of that, as the gentleman from Washington has said, one 
B-2 bomber can knock out the same 16 targets that it takes 75 
conventional aircraft to knock out.
  We have got one question to ask ourselves tonight, in fact, in a 
couple of minutes you will make a very important vote. Because there 
are young men and women out there now training to be bomber pilots. You 
are going to make a decision as to whether or not they are flying a 40-
year old aircraft, the B-52, or whether they are flying an aircraft 
that will protect them. If you say no, for the first time in this 
century we are telling our young people, we invented a technology that 
would protect you in wartime but we are not going to give it to you 
because it is too expensive.
  Vote for peace through strength. Vote for an affordable program. Vote 
for the B-2.
  The CHAIRMAN. The Chairman will advise that the gentleman from Ohio 
[Mr. Kasich] has 9 minutes remaining, the gentleman from California 
[Mr. Dellums] has 5 minutes remaining, the gentleman from Arizona [Mr. 
Stump] has 4 minutes remaining, and the gentleman from Missouri [Mr. 
Skelton] 3\1/2\ minutes remaining.
  The order for closing will be, first, the gentleman from California 
[Mr. Dellums], then the gentleman from Missouri [Mr. Skelton], then the 
gentleman from Ohio [Mr. Kasich], and the gentleman from Arizona [Mr. 
Stump] has the right to close.
  Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Chairman, let us tell the story of the B-2 bomber. First of all, 
in regard to Scott O'Grady, we would not be flying B-2 bombers over 
Bosnia now in place of an F-16. That is just flat out never the kind of 
procedure we would use.
  But let me go on and talk about the history, the story of the plane. 
Five years ago I went to a briefing to try to figure out what the B-2 
bomber was all about. It was a tremendously shrouded program, and we 
did not find out about it until we invested a ton of money. I was in 
the top secret briefing, and I found out what the purpose of B-2 was. 
The B-2 was to be used to fly around in the Soviet Union in the middle 
of a nuclear war looking for things to bomb. Now, you have to hear 
that. We were going to fly the B-2 into the Soviet Union in the middle 
of a nuclear war to bomb things. That was the purpose of the B-2.
  At the time, I said, first of all, I could not conceive of flying the 
plane around in the middle of a nuclear war. But, second, I said, if 
you need to hit targets, hit them with standoff weapons. You are 
familiar with them. You saw them in the war against Saddam. We did not 
put our pilots at risk. We stood outside danger, and we used smart 
weapons to fire in. That is precisely the option that the Pentagon is 
seeking right now. They do not want to put pilots at risk. They want to 
have pilots out of danger, using precision guided munitions at much 
cheaper prices.
  So I said, why do we need to have the B-2? And we started this fight. 
And they went from about 165 of them down to about 130. I was down at 
about 13 with a bipartisan coalition of Republicans and Democrats. 
Three years ago, Dick Cheney calls me up. And he says, John, I cannot 
use 13. I would like to have 20. Frankly, I do not even want the plane. 
That is what he told me on the telephone. He said, But I want to go to 
20, because that will give me a force that I can use and a force that I 
need, and we can wrap up the program.
  And I said, Why do you not wrap it up at 13? He says, Well, I mean, I 
just think we ought to do 20.
  I came back here. I talked to the gentleman from California [Mr. 
Dellums]. He said no; I said yes. We ended up reaching a deal on 20 B-2 
bombers.
  Now, last Congress, we come back. In the Committee on Armed Services, 
they say, We need to build more B-2s. I said in the conference 
committee, Wait a minute, a deal is a deal. Cheney said he wanted 20. 
Why would we build anymore?
  And they said to me, that was then and this is now. And this is a new 
Congress. So we got this big fight.
  So guess what the agreement was? The agreement was to have the 
Pentagon commission an independent bomber study. The independent bomber 
study was to assess whether we had enough bombers in order to carry out 
our mission. That was its purpose, to find out whether we would have 
the strongest and most efficient national defense.
  I opposed the bomber study. Do you know why? Because I thought it was 
a fait accompli that they would come back and tell us to build more 
bombers. Mr. Dellums said, no, we ought to go with it. We changed the 
language. And I said, fine, let us do a bomber study, we will see how 
it will come out.
  So we trusted the last group in the Pentagon over the last 2 years to 
do this bomber study. And that was to define what we should do today. 
So guess what? We did a bomber study, commissioned independently by a 
very well-respected group. I have
 got the study right here.
  Do you know what they say? We do not want anymore B-2s. We want to 
fix the B-1. We think it is a good plane. We want to buy more smart 
weapons. And we think there is more effective and efficient ways to 
manage the building and provide for the strongest national defense. The 
independent bomber study that was commissioned to tell us what to do 
says, do not buy anymore.
  Then I get a letter from the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, Admiral Owens, nobody's lackey. In fact he has been profiled as 
perhaps the best 21st century thinker. And Admiral Owens came to see me 
and he said, we do not want anymore B-2s.
  So we have got the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who 
says, We do not want the B-2. Then we find out that the chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, the chief military officer of the services says, 
I do not want the B-2. I can have more effective use of resources.
  And then we heard from people who I consider to be absolutely 
critical, the CINCs. The CINCs are the commanders in the field. They 
are the ones that fight the wars. And the CINCs are in unanimous 
agreement with the bomber study and in unanimous agreement with the 
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the vice chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff. And do you know what they say? We do not want 
anymore B-2s. We have better ways to do it.
  Then we had the Secretary of Defense who came to see me and he said, 
do not put these white elephants in my budget, because if you do, you 
keep me from buying the things I need such as, the C-17 for transport, 
the F-22 advanced fighter program, the helicopters, and the issue that 
everybody has been so worried about, readiness. What he said to me is, 
do not force me to spend money on a program I do not want. I have 
better ways to secure national security and have efficiency in the way 
I do things. Do not handcuff me. And, of course, we have the heavy 
bomber study that says, we do not need this.
  Now, we have seen a chart that talks about what the two B-2s deliver 
you. Let me show you the chart. What is left off of the chart is the 
fact that it is not just two B-2s that you have to do, but you have to 
have all this support aircraft. And you see all these weapons up here. 
They are already paid for. The gentleman from Washington [Mr. Dicks] 
said we should get rid of all these weapons.
  First of all, I do not agree with that. Second, we are not going to 
do it. So if we build the 2 B-2s, we have to provide all the support, 
including more people, more costs, more air refuelers, and it costs us 
an additional $2.4 billion.
  Now look, this is not my view alone. I did not come up with this idea 
that we should get rid of it. It is just that I cannot find anybody in 
a uniform who is at any kind of ranking level in the building that says 
they want the plane. [[Page H5880]] 
  Now, I can remember when the Republicans used to criticize the 
Democrats for buying weapons systems that the Pentagon did not want. 
And the Pentagon is saying, let us fix the B-1. Let us use precision 
guided munitions, do the 20 B-2s, and the B-52s are fine in a standoff 
role. In fact, they are going to be used until about the year 2015. But 
what we have done is we have added a $38 billion program.
  Now, this is the heavy bomber study. Do you know what it says? The 
planned force can meet the national security requirements of two 
simultaneous regional conflicts without the B-2, the current force with 
the 20. Additional quantities of accurate guided
 munitions are more cost-effective than procuring 20 additional B-2s. 
It says, let us buy the standoff precision-guided weapons. It will be 
better for us than buying B-2s. Frankly, it will save us a ton of 
money. In fact, it will allow us to not have to put other systems at 
risk.
  I am going to tell you in the <strong>House</strong> that if you are for C-17 and you 
are for F-22 and you are for helicopters and you are for readiness, at 
the end of the day when you add this big chunk of money in there, you 
have got a problem.
  Now, finally, the other point is, we are going to be making a lot of 
hard choices in this <strong>House</strong>. We have already made a lot of hard choices 
in this <strong>House</strong>. And I have got this very high rating in national 
security, about 100 percent. But I consider myself to be a cheap hawk.
  I deeply respect the Members of this <strong>House</strong> who feel passionately on 
the other side. That is what debates are all about. But my sense is, 
when I am faced at looking at the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, the 
vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs, the commanders in the field, the 
Secretary of Defense, the independent bomber study, all of which says, 
do not spend the money, how the heck can I come out here on the floor 
and vote to spend the money when I have got to balance the budget by 
2002 and guarantee that we have a defense that is ready, a defense that 
is efficient?
  And I would maintain that by lobbying this big chunk of money in 
there, we undercut our ability to do the things, the building blocks of 
defense that will guarantee the security of our forces.
  Support the Kasich-Dellums amendment. Save money, balance the budget. 
Provide for a strong national defense.
  Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Hawaii [Mr. Abercrombie].
  Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Mr. Chairman, I seldom disagree with the ranking 
member of the Committee on National Security, the gentleman from 
California [Mr. Dellums], but he said that this is one of the most 
important votes. And I would like to say that this is the most 
important vote that is going to be made on not just this budget but the 
whole budget proposal.
  The gentleman from Ohio [Mr. Kasich] has made it very clear, and I am 
in a good position to talk about this, because Mr. Kasich knows that I 
told him early on in this process, John, one of the reasons I respect 
you, and I say this to the whole <strong>House</strong>, is that you are not only honest 
and sincere, but you bring forward what you really believe in and you 
back it up. I said, what is going to happen is, everybody is going to 
stand up and cheer, which is what has happened, everybody is going to 
give you the accolades. And then they are going to stiff-arm you. As 
soon as it comes to spending the bucks to make the money, they are 
going to come right in and they are going to give it to you. And where 
they are going to do it is in defense, and they are going to do it 
right with the B-2 bomber.
  I tell you this: If you do not pass the Kasich-Dellums amendment, if 
you oppose this amendment, you are sticking a knife in the heart of the 
fiscal budget proposal that Mr. Kasich put forward and that everybody, 
so many Members, Democrats and Republicans, have applauded. It is one 
thing to stand up and cheer for the gentleman from Ohio [Mr. Kasich] 
and tell him, you did the job, buddy. I am going to be there for you, 
unless, of course, I have to disappear, which is what is happening now.
  This is a test of integrity in budgeting. This is a glide path, not 
to a balanced budget, this is a glide path to balanced budget oblivion. 
That is what you are heading for. You can put up charts until you 
choke. And what is going to happen in the end, if Kasich-Dellums fails. 
That means that you are not going to have a balanced budget. You will 
be doing ballet with the books is what you are going to do. You are 
going to have to spend, as Mr. Kasich will tell you and any honest 
person will tell you, you are going to have to spend 40 percent of your 
defense outlays in the next budget cycle as it comes up in order to 
take care of this B-2.
  If Members listen to people tonight, they would think there were not 
any B-2's. We are going to have to have a dozen and a half. We are 
going to be building B-2's and we are going to be putting people to 
work into the next century, right now. They said 20 that are coming up. 
We have not even taken delivery on half a dozen. We still have to get 
up to the number 20.
  It is not $553 million we are voting on. Members know very well that 
it is $31 billion we are talking about, that we are not going to be 
able to find in defense. We are going to have to take it out of 
readiness, we are going to have to take it out of quality of life, out 
of operations and maintenance.
  We have been told over and over again we have to make tough choices, 
tough choices within every category. We are telling kids they have to 
make tough choices, elderly people they have to make tough choices. We 
have to make tough choices in defense, as well.
  The gentleman from Washington [Mr. Dicks] says we need to make those 
tough choices, so everyone is saying that. There is nothing tough about 
this. If Members do not back the gentleman from Ohio [Mr. Kasich], and 
Members do not back the gentleman from California [Mr. Dellums], they 
are not backing the basic budget proposal that has been put forward 
about balancing the budget, and they are giving the gentleman from 
Ohio, John Kasich, all the accolades, and giving him the shaft on the 
actual budget.
  Mr. STUMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from California [Mr. Lewis].
  (Mr. LEWIS of California. asked and was given permission to revise 
and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. LEWIS of California, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the work of my 
Chairman. I very much want to rise in support of the B-2 long lead.
  Mr. Chairman, I rise today to draw my colleagues' attention to an 
important issue which will shortly be decided by this <strong>House</strong>: namely 
continue acquisition of the B-2 stealth bomber.
  My friends, we are witnessing a revolution in air warfare. The advent 
of stealth has changed the way we think about this important facet of 
our Nation's defense. In the 1940's, the introduction of radar saved a 
beleaguered England from a numerically superior German air onslaught. 
That single technology gave the Royal Air Force the edge that made all 
the difference.
  We are there again, only this time the need is to foil the radar and 
protect our aircraft. Stealth is that new technology. The value of this 
new stealth capability was evident in the gulf war with the F-117. The 
F-117 production line is already closed. The B-2 bomber takes this 
technology one major step further.
  With its large payload, long range and precision weapons, the B-2 can 
fly farther, carry more, and destroy targets with greater accuracy than 
any other aircraft. For example, a force of 32 B-2's, loaded with 
modern weapons, could have engaged as many targets on the first day of 
the Persian Gulf war as the 1,263 aircraft that were used. This is an 
amazing fact.
  The B-2 will save lives. It will conserve resources in the long run, 
and it will create a capability that resides only in support of U.S. 
military forces.
  This body has always followed the philosophy that U.S. soldiers, 
sailors and airmen must be sent in harm's way fully prepared and 
equipped for victory. Now is not the time to reverse that philosophy.
  As a member of the Intelligence Committee and the Appropriations 
subcommittee that handles Defense, I could never in good conscience 
vote to close the only bomber production line in this country, 
especially one as advanced as the B-2.
  Proponents of this amendment state that we can't afford to keep the 
only bomber production line in this Nation open. Let me assure you, for 
our sons and daughters, our grandchildren and great-grandchildren, for 
pilots like Scott O'Grady, we can't afford not to. Vote no on the 
Dellums-Kasich amendment.
  Mr. STUMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Oklahoma [Mr. Watts], a member of the committee.
  Mr. WATTS of Oklahoma. Mr. Chairman, the chairman and members of the 
Committee on National Security have clearly set sights on supporting 
the B-2 in the fiscal year 1996 defense authorization bill. We have 
worked within the Committee on the Budget's target and come up with a 
bill that gives this Congress its first opportunity to deliver on the 
promise of revitalizing our national defense.
  A critical part of this bill is its call for long lead funding needed 
to probably acquire an additional 2 B-2's. The amendment we have before 
us asks to strike that funding. Mr. Chairman, under normal 
circumstances I would be more than willing to take the Defense 
Department's word on a military force structuring decision. In the case 
of the B-2, there is an overwhelming amount of contradictory evidence.
  Originally I planned to base my B-2 decision on the results of the 
heavy bomber force study, but after seeing assumptions and methodology, 
something is wrong. Assumptions like 14 days of buildup time, does 
anyone really believe an aggressor would just sit back, give us 14 days 
to deploy our fighters, then attack? I do not think so. To wait would 
be suicide. We know it and they know it.
  I believe it was Under Secretary Kaminsky who said that B-1's and B-
2's need fighter escorts to do the job. When I heard this, I was 
baffled. The B-2 is the first fighter weapon of choice that can be 
counted on in the war we are most likely to fight.
  I challenge each of the Members to think about the direction the 
world is going, the disorder around us. The notion that we are safe or 
war is less likely should be dismissed. The reality is the enemies' 
names may have changed, but they are still there.
  Mr. Chairman, chemical weapons, nuclear weapons, are available, and 
we must have the ability to counter that threat. The B-2 and its 
technology must be acquired while it is within our economic grasp. This 
is our only chance to harness the B-2's revolutionary capabilities, 
capabilities that because of who we are and what we stand for, will 
benefit the entire world.
  Proponents of this amendment state that we cannot afford to keep the 
only bomber production line in this Nation open. Let me assure the 
Members, we need the B-2. Let us not drop the ball on this one. I urge 
a no vote on this amendment.
  Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Chairman, would the chair remind this gentleman as 
to the remaining amount of time?
  The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from California [Mr. Dellums] has 2 
minutes remaining. The gentleman from Missouri [Mr. Skelton] has 3\1/2\ 
minutes remaining. The time of the gentleman from Ohio [Mr. Kasich] has 
expired, and the gentleman from Arizona [Mr. Stump] has 2 minutes 
remaining, and is entitled to close.
  Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the remaining 2 minutes to 
close on this side.
  Mr. Chairman, I would like to make several quick observations as I 
have tried to listen to my distinguished colleague. I would say to my 
friend, the gentleman from Oklahoma, the newspaper says 14 days. It 
will take 14 years to build the next 20 B-2s.
  The second point, the argument from the gentleman from Louisiana 
regarding these 50-some-year-old weapon systems, we are building 20 B-
2s at this point. Work is still out there. We have B-1 bombers that we 
are equipping. That is one of the stealthiest weapons in the world. We 
spent $24.5 building the B-1 and nobody has seen it since. It is a 
weapons system that we cannot deal with.
  My next argument is this question of preserving the industrial base, 
as if in some way we do not build anymore B-2s, the bombers' industrial 
base will go away. The people that build the B-2 did not build the B-1. 
The people that built the B-1 did not build the B-52. The people that 
built the B-52 did not build the B-29 and the B-17. There has been no 
contractor that built the successive bomber. This is about preserving 
the industrial base of the B-2 bomber, not the bomber.
  Mr. Chairman, we have the aircraft industry out there that would run 
through this wall to get B-3 contracts. It is not about the industrial 
base, it is about the B-2. It is a plane that we do not need, nobody 
wants, except people that will benefit from it. It is not a plane that 
we need for our national security. It does not speak to the health and 
safety of our troops. It is a $31.5 billion walk down a road, when we 
are wreaking havoc on the American people. It is a weapons system we 
can reject.
  I urge Members to support the amendment. I am proud of the gentleman 
from Ohio [Mr. Kasich] for his eloquence and his articulate 
presentation that would warrant all of us to oppose this B-2 bomber.
  Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Chairman, my friend and colleague, the gentleman from California 
[Mr. Dellums], says that the only people who want this will be the 
people who benefit from it. I say to each of the Members that every 
American benefits from national defense. Every American benefits from 
the strongest national defense our country can provide. Those who say 
that they are for a strong national defense, but are against the most 
sophisticated, highly-technical weapons system that no one else can 
produce except us, causes me to wonder.
  Then my good friend, the gentleman from Ohio [Mr. Kasich], said who 
is for it. He overlooked the most important airplane pilot, recently 
retired, but while he was on active duty, General Mike Lowe. He said 
``My assessment says we need 30 or 40 more bombers to make things work 
out about right, so we don't have to stretch the bomber force in 2 
major regional contingency scenarios.''
  We should think of this with reason. We should not let emotion make 
this decision. This discussion is based upon a flawed study, and I 
compliment the
 gentleman from Oklahoma [Mr. Watts] who pointed that out. The study, 
the bomber study, assumes we have a 14-day waiting period, warning 
period, time in which we can get ready and put our entire 60-some-odd 
aircraft in the theater.
  I will remind Members that Poland was invaded in 1939 without 
warning. I will remind Members that Pearl Harbor was attacked on 
December 7, 1941, without warning. South Korea was invaded in June, 
1950, without warning. The Berlin wall went up in 1961, without 
warning. More recently, in Kuwait, Saddam Hussein came into their 
country without warning.
  Mr. Chairman, we have a weapons system that can make air power 
something necessary, something that can make America extend its 
defensive systems without warning. The B-2 can be deployed across the 
globe within hours. Under the cloak of stealth, the B-2 can deter and 
repel an armored attack better than any other defense system, while 
putting only 2 American servicemen at risk. I ask my colleagues what 
our response would have been in Kuwait in absence of time to position 
our forces?
  Mr. Chairman, a bipartisan group of 7 former Defense secretaries, 
including Harold Brown and Dick Cheney, made the case in a letter to 
President Clinton in January: ``The B-2 remains the most cost-effective 
means of rapidly protecting our force over great distances. Its range 
will enable it to reach any point on the earth within hours after 
launch while being deployed at only 3 secure bases around the world. 
Its payload, an array of munitions, will permit it to destroy numerous 
time-sensitive targets in a single sortie.''
  Mr. Chairman, I oppose the Kasich amendment, and I hope people will 
vote against it.
  Mr. STUMP. Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from New York [Mr. Solomon].
  (Mr. SOLOMON asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Chairman, former <strong>House</strong> Member and conference 
Chairman Dick Cheney wants a ``no'' vote on this amendment, and so do 
I. Members are playing into the hands of those that want to gut our 
defense. Vote ``no.''
  Mr. STUMP. Mr. Chairman, I am happy to yield the balance of my time 
to the gentleman from Texas [Mr. Armey], the distingished majority 
leader, to close debate on this side. [[Page H5882]] 
  The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Texas [Mr. Armey] is recognized for 
2 minutes.
  Mr. ARMEY. Mr. Chairman, let me preface my remarks by expressing my 
deep appreciation for the framers of this amendment. I have always 
found the gentleman from California [Mr. Dellums] to be one of the 
finest and most honorable men in this Chamber, and I continue to do so, 
and my cap, as always, is off to him.
  The gentleman from Ohio, John Kasich, is a ball of energy and a 
commitment that is always heartfelt and a sincerity that is always 
obvious. We saw that most recently on the budget, and the gentleman 
from Ohio, John Kasich, saw us through on the budget.
  However, Mr. Chairman, this is not about the budget. This armed 
services bill conforms to the requirements of the budget we passed just 
a few short weeks before. This is about the defense of our Nation and 
the safety and the security of our children for years to come.
  I have to tell the Members, I have only one basis by which I would 
judge any acquisition of any military equipment in this country now and 
ever, and that is does it keep my children safe in a hostile world. 
While we ensure the safety of our children and the security of our 
Nation, can we do so in such a way as to put the minimal number of 
people at the minimal risk while they have a maximum chance to fulfill 
a diversity of missions successfully, at a minimal cost.
  That is what I have found in the B-2. The B-2 does, for me and for my 
children's future, and for my Nation, and for my Nation's Treasury, 
everything I can ask of a weapons system. This is truly, Mr. Chairman, 
a flying miracle for the future. It is something we ought to be very, 
very serious about.
  We think too many times in terms of the high drama and the glamour of 
the Stealth, but I would submit, it is the range of the B-2 and it is 
the diversity of mission capability, bolstered by that stealth, that 
makes the successes more obvious, more readily apparent, and the safety 
of the men and women that would man this piece of equipment more 
secure. That is what we must treasure and find precious here.
  Mr. Chairman, finally let me say, yes, cost is important, but we 
cannot look at the initial acquisition cost of this or any other 
weapon. One must look at the lifetime deployment cost, and over the 
lifetime of this weapon, we get a greater diversity of mission, 
opportunities to be deployed to save this Nation, at a lower cost and 
with a minimal amount of men and women at risk, and a minimal amount of 
support to the mission than we can get from anything else available.
  We must vote ``no'' on the Kasich-Dellums amendment, irrespective of 
how much affection we have for both gentleman, how much appreciation 
for the sincerity of their purpose. We must cast this vote for one 
purpose and one purpose alone, the safety of our children and the 
security of people who keep them safe. That is our only basis.
  Finally, let me close with this observation. I do not care and I 
implore Members, do not care where jobs will be found. Jobs will pass; 
a nation's security must be forever.
  I thank the gentlemen who have participated in this debate and 
allowing me to close.
  Mr. EMERSON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to the 
amendment offered by my colleagues, Mr. Kasich and Mr. Dellums, for 
fear that it will compromise the ability of this Nation to mount an 
effective bombing strike in the case of war. This amendment threatens 
our security and stability because it would deprive our armed forces of 
the necessary tools they need to ensure a quick and sure victory.
  The end of the cold war did not mark the end of aggression in the 
world. Recent events only seem to underscore the necessity for our 
country to maintain a sense of readiness to defend our interests abroad 
and to preserve democracy throughout the world. The war in the gulf 
proved to be an excellent example of the effectiveness and precision of 
stealth aircraft, and it demonstrated that American technology remains 
unmatched in the world. To deprive us of this capability now would send 
a signal to other countries that America is no longer willing to go to 
war to fight for what we believe in. This amendment in effect will 
reduce our deterrent throughout the world.
  The spread of nuclear weapons has become a source of much speculation 
and fear. Unless America has the capability to unilaterally strike a 
terrorist nation that may have a nuclear weapon, we are inviting the 
proliferation of those weapons. The stealth bomber gives us that 
capability. Considering the aging fleet that we currently have, the B-2 
may soon be the only real long-range bomber in our arsenal. If we 
choose to close the only bomber production line currently open, the 
costs to reopen that assembly later on would be high. It makes no sense 
to close an assembly line producing our only long-range bomber when we 
know we will eventually have to open it again down the road.
  The B-2 is not a high-priced techno-gadget; in fact, one pair of B-2 
bombers can actually do the work of 75 other aircraft. Buying more of 
the stealth bomber makes a lot of economic sense, because it does the 
job with more bang for the buck!!! In a time of military downsizing, 
nothing illustrates the idea of a smaller, more efficient military that 
retains its muscle than this aircraft. It is imperative that we keep 
it.
  More importantly, the B-2 keeps Americans out of harm's way. The 
recent events in Bosnia must have convinced us that our pilots should 
be protected as much as possible. Since the B-2 is a long-range bomber, 
it can be launched from distances far from the threats of the enemy. 
Also, the stealth capabilities of this bomber ensure that the crew will 
remain safe. Finally, only two people are required to fly this 
magnificant aircraft, which minimizes the number of American pilots 
required to go into combat.
  Mr. Speaker, when one looks at the benefits of this aircraft and the 
military needs of our country, it is an easy decision to support the 
continued production of the B-2 bomber. I hope that my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle will realize that in this point in history, 
America cannot afford to ignore the need for a strong national defense. 
The United States must maintain her superiority in weaponry to ensure 
peace into the 21st century. With that in mind, I stand in firm 
opposition to the amendment.
  Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the amendment 
being offered by my distinguished colleagues, Mr. Dellums and Mr. 
Kasich, and I ask permission to revise and extend my remarks. I never 
cease to be amazed how this Congress has been obsessed with cutting 
government yet it refuses to confront government's most obvious 
excesses. The B-2 bomber is a perfect example of this absurd 
double standard.
  The B-2 is a cold war relic designed to fight a now nonexistent 
Soviet Union. The General Accounting Office conducted a comprehensive 
study of the B-2 program over 2 years and found that the Soviet air 
defense threat that the B-2 was supposed to circumvent was never even 
deployed.
  Why are we fighting this ghost of an enemy? Because we can't quit our 
irrational addiction to military spending. The 20 additional B-2's that 
are proposed will cost an astounding $31 billion according to the Air 
Force. I will add, as if it were of little consequence, that the Air 
Force does not even want this plane. So who does? Perhaps it's the 
Northrop Grumman Corporation that has told America that it will cost 
one-third of the Air Force's estimates.
  The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has said this plane is 
unnecessary. The Secretary of the Air Force, Sheila Widnall, said last 
fall ``Every program we have in the budget is a higher priority'' than 
the B-2. The Department of Defense hasn't asked for them. Two 
independent studies have concluded that our military needs are better 
met through other means. So why are we funding it?
  Many people think its worth voting for just because it will create 
jobs. But we all know that $31 billion spent in education, 
transportation, or construction creates far more jobs, as the 
Congressional Research Service found in a study it conducted. Not only 
does nondefense investment create more jobs, it creates better jobs 
through a lasting investment in our children and for our country. We'll 
never have a secure Nation until we stop using national security so 
loosely, and begin talking about real national security that includes 
real economic security. The GAO concluded in its study that buying more 
B-2's would be ``complex, time consuming and extremely costly.'' Well, 
I maintain that it's not just costly because it's money spent, it's 
extravagant because that money should be better spent.
  I think we're calling this the long-range bomber because it's going 
to cost an arm and a leg in the long range. Let's leave the ``bat 
plane'' for the movies, and calculate our investments according to our 
real economic and military needs.
  The CHAIRMAN. All time has expired.
  The question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Ohio 
[Mr. Kasich]. [[Page H5883]] 
  The question was taken; and the Chairman announced that the noes 
appeared to have it.


                             recorded vote
  Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
  A recorded vote was ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 203, 
noes 219, not voting 12, as follows:
                             [Roll No. 370]
                               AYES--203
     Abercrombie
     Andrews
     Bachus
     Baldacci
     Ballenger
     Barcia
     Barrett (NE)
     Barrett (WI)
     Barton
     Bass
     Becerra
     Beilenson
     Bereuter
     Bilbray
     Blute
     Bonior
     Brown (OH)
     Brownback
     Bryant (TN)
     Bunn
     Burr
     Camp
     Cardin
     Castle
     Chabot
     Christensen
     Clay
     Clayton
     Clement
     Coble
     Coburn
     Collins (IL)
     Collins (MI)
     Combest
     Condit
     Conyers
     Costello
     Coyne
     Cremeans
     Danner
     DeFazio
     DeLauro
     Dellums
     Deutsch
     Dickey
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Doyle
     Duncan
     Durbin
     Ehlers
     Engel
     English
     Eshoo
     Evans
     Farr
     Fattah
     Flake
     Flanagan
     Foglietta
     Foley
     Ford
     Frank (MA)
     Franks (NJ)
     Furse
     Ganske
     Gejdenson
     Gibbons
     Goodlatte
     Goodling
     Gordon
     Greenwood
     Gunderson
     Gutierrez
     Gutknecht
     Hall (OH)
     Hamilton
     Heineman
     Hoekstra
     Hutchinson
     Jacobs
     Johnson (SD)
     Johnston
     Kanjorski
     Kaptur
     Kasich
     Kennedy (MA)
     Kennelly
     Kildee
     Kingston
     Klink
     Klug
     Kolbe
     Lantos
     Largent
     Latham
     LaTourette
     Lazio
     Leach
     Levin
     Lewis (GA)
     Lincoln
     Lipinski
     LoBiondo
     Lofgren
     Lowey
     Luther
     Maloney
     Markey
     Martini
     Mascara
     McDermott
     McHale
     McInnis
     McKinney
     McNulty
     Meehan
     Menendez
     Mfume
     Miller (CA)
     Miller (FL)
     Mineta
     Minge
     Mink
     Moakley
     Molinari
     Morella
     Nadler
     Neal
     Ney
     Nussle
     Oberstar
     Obey
     Olver
     Orton
     Owens
     Pallone
     Parker
     Pastor
     Paxon
     Payne (NJ)
     Payne (VA)
     Peterson (MN)
     Petri
     Porter
     Portman
     Poshard
     Pryce
     Quinn
     Radanovich
     Rahall
     Ramstad
     Rangel
     Reed
     Regula
     Reynolds
     Riggs
     Rivers
     Roemer
     Ros-Lehtinen
     Roth
     Roukema
     Roybal-Allard
     Rush
     Sabo
     Sanders
     Sanford
     Sawyer
     Schroeder
     Schumer
     Sensenbrenner
     Serrano
     Shadegg
     Shays
     Shuster
     Sisisky
     Skaggs
     Slaughter
     Smith (MI)
     Smith (WA)
     Stark
     Stenholm
     Stokes
     Studds
     Stupak
     Tanner
     Torkildsen
     Towns
     Upton
     Velazquez
     Vento
     Waldholtz
     Wamp
     Watt (NC)
     Waxman
     Weldon (PA)
     White
     Wise
     Woolsey
     Wyden
     Wynn
     Zeliff
     Zimmer
                               NOES--219
     Ackerman
     Allard
     Armey
     Baesler
     Baker (CA)
     Baker (LA)
     Barr
     Bartlett
     Bateman
     Bentsen
     Berman
     Bevill
     Bilirakis
     Bishop
     Bliley
     Boehlert
     Boehner
     Bonilla
     Bono
     Borski
     Brewster
     Browder
     Brown (CA)
     Brown (FL)
     Bryant (TX)
     Bunning
     Burton
     Buyer
     Callahan
     Calvert
     Canady
     Chambliss
     Chapman
     Chenoweth
     Chrysler
     Clinger
     Clyburn
     Coleman
     Collins (GA)
     Cooley
     Cox
     Cramer
     Crane
     Crapo
     Cubin
     Cunningham
     Davis
     de la Garza
     Deal
     DeLay
     Diaz-Balart
     Dicks
     Dixon
     Dooley
     Doolittle
     Dornan
     Dreier
     Dunn
     Edwards
     Ehrlich
     Emerson
     Ensign
     Everett
     Ewing
     Fawell
     Fazio
     Fields (LA)
     Fields (TX)
     Filner
     Forbes
     Fowler
     Fox
     Franks (CT)
     Frelinghuysen
     Frisa
     Frost
     Funderburk
     Gallegly
     Gekas
     Geren
     Gilchrest
     Gillmor
     Gilman
     Gonzalez
     Goss
     Graham
     Green
     Hall (TX)
     Hancock
     Hansen
     Harman
     Hastert
     Hastings (FL)
     Hastings (WA)
     Hayes
     Hayworth
     Hefley
     Hefner
     Herger
     Hilleary
     Hilliard
     Hinchey
     Hobson
     Hoke
     Holden
     Horn
     Hostettler
     Houghton
     Hoyer
     Hunter
     Hyde
     Inglis
     Istook
     Jackson-Lee
     Jefferson
     Johnson (CT)
     Johnson, E. B.
     Johnson, Sam
     Jones
     Kelly
     Kennedy (RI)
     Kim
     King
     Knollenberg
     LaHood
     Laughlin
     Lewis (CA)
     Lewis (KY)
     Lightfoot
     Linder
     Livingston
     Longley
     Lucas
     Manton
     Manzullo
     Matsui
     McCarthy
     McCollum
     McCrery
     McDade
     McHugh
     McIntosh
     McKeon
     Meek
     Metcalf
     Meyers
     Mica
     Mollohan
     Montgomery
     Moorhead
     Moran
     Murtha
     Myers
     Nethercutt
     Neumann
     Norwood
     Ortiz
     Oxley
     Packard
     Peterson (FL)
     Pickett
     Pombo
     Pomeroy
     Quillen
     Richardson
     Roberts
     Rogers
     Rohrabacher
     Rose
     Royce
     Salmon
     Saxton
     Scarborough
     Schaefer
     Schiff
     Scott
     Seastrand
     Shaw
     Skeen
     Skelton
     Smith (NJ)
     Solomon
     Souder
     Spence
     Spratt
     Stearns
     Stockman
     Stump
     Talent
     Tate
     Tauzin
     Taylor (MS)
     Taylor (NC)
     Tejeda
     Thomas
     Thompson
     Thornberry
     Thornton
     Thurman
     Tiahrt
     Torres
     Torricelli
     Traficant
     Tucker
     Visclosky
     Volkmer
     Vucanovich
     Walker
     Walsh
     Ward
     Waters
     Watts (OK)
     Weldon (FL)
     Weller
     Whitfield
     Wicker
     Wolf
     Young (AK)
     Young (FL)
                             NOT VOTING--12
     Archer
     Boucher
     Gephardt
     Kleczka
     LaFalce
     Martinez
     Myrick
     Pelosi
     Smith (TX)
     Williams
     Wilson
     Yates
  Mr. TAYLOR of North Carolina and Mr. ALLARD changed their vote from 
``aye'' to ``no.''
  Messrs. CHRISTENSEN, COBLE, and GORDON changed their vote from ``no'' 
to ``aye.''
  So the amendment was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
         amendments en bloc, as modified, offered by mr. spence
  Mr. SPENCE. Mr. Chairman, I offer amendments en bloc, as modified.
  The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc and 
report the modifications.
  The Clerk designated the amendments en bloc and proceeded to read the 
modifications.
  Mr. SPENCE (during the reading). Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous 
consent that the modifications be considered as read and printed in the 
Record.
  The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from 
South Carolina?
  There was no objection.
  The text of the amendments, as modified, is as follows:
       Amendments en bloc, as modified, offered by Mr. Spence:


                     amendment offered by mr. mica
       At the end of subtitle C of title I (page 20, after line 
     25), insert the following new section:
     SEC. 134. SONOBUOY PROGRAMS.
       Of the amount provided in section 102(a)(4)--
       (1) none of such amount shall be available for the AN/SSQ-
     53 (DIFAR) program; and
       (2) $8,902,000 shall be available for the AN/SSQ-110 (EER) 
     program.


             amendment, as modified, offered by mr. hansen
       At the end of subtitle E of title I (page 22, after line 
     14), insert the following new section:
     SEC. 153. ASSISTANCE FOR CHEMICAL WEAPONS STOCKPILE 
                   COMMUNITIES AFFECTED BY BASE CLOSURE.
       The Secretary of Defense shall review and evaluate issues 
     associated with closure and reutilization of Department of 
     Defense facilities co-located with continuing chemical 
     stockpile and chemical demilitarization operations. The 
     review shall include analysis of the economic impacts on 
     these communities and the unique reuse problems facing local 
     communities associated with ongoing chemical weapons 
     programs. The review should also include recommendations from 
     the Secretary on methods for expeditious and cost-effective 
     transfer of these facilities to local communities for base 
     reuse or privatization. The Secretary shall submit to 
     Congress a report on the review and evaluation not later than 
     90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    Amendment Offered by Mr. Hansen
       At the end of title II (page 61, after line 2), insert the 
     following new section:
     SEC. 263. DEMILITARIZATION OF CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS, 
                   ROCKETS, AND EXPLOSIVES.
       Of the amount appropriated pursuant to the authorization in 
     section 201 for the joint Department of Defense-Department of 
     Energy munitions technology development program (PE 63225D), 
     $15,000,000 shall be available for cooperative development 
     and demonstration of processes that comply with applicable 
     environmental laws for the demilitarization and disposal of 
     unserviceable, obsolete, or nontreaty compliant munitions, 
     rocket motors, and explosives. In carrying out such 
     development and demonstration, the Secretary of Defense and 
     the Secretary of Energy should consider a number of potential 
     technologies, including super-critical water oxidation, 
     molten metal pyrolisis, plasma arc, catalytic fluidized-bed 
     oxidation, molten salt oxidation, incineration, critical 
     fluid extraction and ingredient recovery, and underground 
     contained burning.


                    Amendment Offered by Mr. Bateman
       Page 80, strike out line 21 and all that follows through 
     line 17 on page 81, relating to section 335 of the bill 
     (termination of overseas living quarters allowances for 
     nonappropriated fund instrumentality employees), and insert 
     the following new section.
     SEC. 335. LIMITATION ON PROVISION OF OVERSEAS LIVING QUARTERS 
                   ALLOWANCES FOR NONAPPROPRIATED FUND 
                   INSTRUMENTALITY EMPLOYEES.
       (a) Conforming Allowance to Allowances for Other Civilian 
     Employees.--Subject to subsection (b), any overseas living 
[[Continued on page H5884]]
</pre>
</body>
</html>
